FT911-4108

FT  20 APR 91 / The Lex Column: Unit trusts


A lively debate is developing within the UK unit trust industry which is
arguably as important as it is obscure. The question is whether the
time-honoured method of quoting a spread between bid and offer prices should
be replaced with a single pricing system of the kind long familiar to
investors in the United States and continental Europe. Out would go the
complex listings in the back of this newspaper: three different figures and
hundreds of words explaining why. In would come an alternative more likely
to be understood by those small savers the industry is striving to reach.
The UK's Securities and Investment Board has thrown its weight behind
change. The Unit Trust Association is determined not to be rushed and
earlier this year commissioned consultants Touche Ross to options.
Significantly the conclusions of the study, published with little fanfare
just before Easter, are broadly neutral. The dual system can favour
remaining members at the expense of those departing. Single pricing, however
operated, is almost bound to have the opposite effect.
There is no doubt that dual pricing comes into its own for specialist small
company and emerging market funds which hit liquidity problems. But single
pricing may ultimately be the better bet. Fairness could perhaps be ensured
by altering the charging structure to include a fee for leaving the fund.
Provided this is not used as another excuse for increasing managers'
remuneration, investors ought to be grateful.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

910420

