FT911-4115

FT  20 APR 91 / Letter: Meters a sound aid to water conservation


   From Mr DAA FAGANDINI.


Sir, It might be worth mentioning, in respect of your editorial ('A setback
for water metering', April 12), that the metering option has been available
in this district of south London for many years. We installed a meter at our
Dulwich home in 1982 at an up-front cost of Pounds 60. The standard
assumption by Thames Water at the time was that a house such as ours -
detached and with four bedrooms, would consume 1 cu metre daily. A poundage
was set accordingly as soon as water became a charge separate from the
rates.
Our family has used 0.66 cu metre daily on average over these years and more
recently, 0.58 cu metre. Although costs of water and sewerage have climbed
remorselessly, we know that we have recovered the meter installation cost
many times over while also contributing to water conservation.
Installation as well as official meter reading costs will have also
increased dramatically to the point of probably justifying the assessments
reported today. But why have the reasons have been so strongly emphasised
when the option to request a metered charge is buried in the fine print?
Even if Mr Karl Otto Pohl, president of the German Bundesbank, does curb our
inflationary tendencies, a meter must be a sound investment, even if not
blindingly obvious in cash flow terms. Why then, has Thames Water et al not
highlighted the domestic meter option? Too many meters might negatively
affect their own cash flow projections and reduced water consumption could
imperil the dream-like capital investment programmes needed to bring real
'Highland Water' into London. True, but neither would be a sound reason for
not encouraging water conservation wherever that is feasible.
DAA Fagandini,
6, Alleyn Park,
Dulwich, SE21

The Financial Times


London Page 7

910420

