FT911-4107

FT  20 APR 91 / The Lex Column: BP


Amid the murky combination of oil and tax, BP may have found a neat way to
offset some of the unrelieved advanced corporation tax (ACT) which plagues
it and a host of other UK companies with predominantly overseas earnings.
Quirky rules on North Sea profits apparently mean non-oil companies are
unable to follow suit. Nevertheless, they will doubtless be grateful for the
reopening of the anti-ACT campaign.
Briefly, by paying a dividend via special shares in its subsidiary Britoil,
BP wants to shift its ACT liabilities to a subsidiary level where they can
be offset against tax losses. Steering the idea through tax and legal
complications so that it can be put to shareholders will be like edging a
supertanker through a minefield. But since BP wrong-footed the government
once by taking over Britoil, its proposal to save Pounds 150m of tax will
have caused some consternation in Whitehall. Possible Inland Revenue
objections aside, the principal weakness seems to lie in the implicit appeal
to shareholders' benevolence. BP cannot legally offer its shareholders an
incentive to connive in a tax dodge, so it cannot make a higher payment as a
result of the scheme. The benefits must therefore be retained by the
company, amounting to a few pence only in earnings per share. But this
offers no incentive to tax-exempt institutions, who can claim back tax
credits on cash dividends. The scheme has an appeal to private investors.
That may not be enough to guarantee its success.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

910420

