FT911-4174

FT  20 APR 91 / Arts: Dances with demons - Jonathan Burrows' new ballet,
'Stoics'


   By CLEMENT CRISP


JONATHAN BURROWS and Lynne Bristow stand, leaning slightly backwards, both
wearing trousers and sensible shoes, Burrows in shirt and tie, Miss Bristow
in an anonymous top. Suddenly, prompted by one of Mendelssohn's Songs
without Words, they lash themselves into activity. They stamp, flail their
limbs, involve themselves in what can best be called auto-karate as legs fly
up, arms chop the air. We are watching the start of Burrows' completed
Stoics, and as this maddened, difficult, sharply original dance hits us, we
are held. Burrows' is a language we don't understand, which in fact we do
understand - a Serbo-Croat film without subtitles, whose meaning is clear.
Stoics has been growing over the past year or so in performances at The
Place and elsewhere. What I take now to be the completed work is a series of
incidents for Burrows, Bristow, Deborah Jones, Natalie McCann and Luke
Heydon, all from the Royal Ballet, who involve themselves - intensely,
magnificently - in this world of anguish, impotence, and feelings that bang
and roar and shake their frames, with mad dead-pan humour in a blissful
deconstruction of the Blue Danube. Everything is pared to a minimum - no
set; discreet costume; varied music for piano and harmonium - and everything
is fascinating and, I'd venture, as good as any new dance in the country in
its integrity and imaginative scope. If there are influences on Burrows'
work they range from Kenneth MacMillan at his most uncompromising, and
William Forsythe, to folk-dance (Burrows has, from his very earliest
creations, fed from this source) and the psychic and physical distress of
the people disturbed and frustrated.
In partnership with Lynne Bristow, Burrows seems to explore the mysterious
dependencies and wounds, the long-grown fibres, of a marriage. There is such
sympathy - despite the bruising imagery of the dance - and such acceptance
of each other, that it is as if we are witnessing the story of a marriage (a
theme explored in Burrows' earlier cloudy morning, rainy, mild). In
body-wrenching dances set to Matteo Fargion's two-piano music, Burrows
fights with his own demons, his actual struggle for expression - I am
constantly haunted by the image of autism in his work - a mirror of the
creative process. Lynne Bristow becomes a dead weight to be pulled and
lugged by Burrows and Heydon; Heydon has a home-spun solo that is a morris
dance which loses control of itself; a trio shows Burrows and Natalie McCann
like parents to a retarded or disabled child (Lynne Bristow), caring,
exasperated, loving, manipulating this recalcitrant being.
My interpretations may not be those Burrows would welcome, but there is,
behind all this ferocity and poltergeist energy, a sense of compassion and a
sharp eye for the anguish of life. Burrows is shaping a language which
speaks to the heart and mind. And with the Blue Danube he shows a tremendous
sense of humour as four trolls leap and fall and rampage, with Deborah Jones
gloriously unmoved in expression, like a martyr ignoring her tormentors.
This Burrows season is ended at The Place. A chance to catch the group on
any subsequent tour is not to be missed. Stoics lasts 50 minutes, and says a
great deal about movement. The dancers are magnificent in speed, daring,
purpose. Jonathan Burrows is a true creator.

The Financial Times


London Page XVIII

910420

