FT911-4187

FT  20 APR 91 / Wine: The search for authenticity


   By NICHOLAS LANDER


FOR THE 20,000 Portuguese who live in the UK, recommending a good Portuguese
restaurant in this country is becoming more difficult. According to Joao
Henriques, who works at the Portuguese Government Trade Office, in New Bond
Street, last year saw the closure of the two best Portuguese restaurants in
London, Ports in Beauchamp Place and Fogareiro in north London. All that
remains are Aquarios, open evenings only at 62 Porchester Road, (tel:
071-221-7188) and Caravela, the sole survivor of what was once a triumvirate
of Portuguese restaurants in Beauchamp Place.
A lunch at Caravela (071-581-2366) seemed to highlight why Portuguese
restaurants have failed to appeal. The staff could not have been more
accommodating and the food did improve with a tangy creme caramel and
excellent coffee. The rest of my meal, however, and the contents of the
menu, showed little imagination; caldo verde, the cabbage-based soup,
bachalau cooked four different ways and one or two different ways with
chicken and pork.
However, one enclave of Portuguese gastronomy does survive in the Golborne
Road, London W10 in the form of the Lisboa Delicatessen at No 54
(081-969-1052) and opposite, at No 57, the Lisboa Patisserie (081-968-5242).
The delicatessen offers all the ingredients for an authentic Portuguese meal
at home. Salt cod at Pounds 3.35 per lb; different types of sausage from
Pounds 2.80 to Pounds 4.50 per lb; a salty Portuguese goats cheese, and the
popular Queija de Serra at 3.75 per lb. More eye-catching and lively is the
patisserie. Portuguese come and go, talking and smoking under a poster of
their homeland. Prices for the cakes, which include Portuguese delicacies
pastel de Nata, pastel de Coco and Bolas Berlin, are very reasonable.

The Financial Times


London Page XIV

910420

