FT911-4109

FT  20 APR 91 / The Lex Column: Bringing politics into markets


FT-SE Index: 2,520.1 (-18.3)
It ought to have been a triumphal week for the UK equity market. On Tuesday
the FT-SE index went through its all-time intra-day high. On Wednesday Wall
Street - still the dominant influence on the UK market - closed above 3,000
for the first time. There is nevertheless a creeping doubt in the air,
chiefly to do with UK politics and the fact that the unemployment figure has
just topped 2m.
It is received wisdom that Tory standing in the opinion polls rises as the
mortgage rate falls. It is also arguable that if unemployment reaches a
certain absolute level - say, 2.5m - that relationship starts to break down.
It may be within the government's power to get interest rates down to 10 per
cent or so by the autumn. Unemployment will be stickier. Whereas the last
recession bottomed in the third quarter of 1981, unemployment did not peak
until 1985. The jobless total may still be rising when the government's term
runs out next summer - if it has not gone to the country before - whatever
happens to interest rates.
There is a respectable argument which says that ERM membership makes it
unimportant which party is in power. But aside from the fact that the ERM is
better at controlling monetary policy than government spending, the market
is bound to worry that a Labour government would effect a one-off
devaluation on gaining office. Next month's local elections are going to be
a tense time for the investment community.

The Financial Times


London Page 22 Graph (Omitted).

910420

