FT924-945

FT  21 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: UK Accounting


For all its success this year, the UK Accounting Standards Board has avoided
tackling the vexed topics of goodwill and intangible assets. Since the old
Accounting Standards Committee's failure to carry the day on amortising
goodwill was the final nail in its coffin, Professor Tweedie might be
forgiven for biding his time. The challenge is to find a treatment which
satisfies the demands of business without leaving UK accounts out of step
with international practice.
Professor Tweedie has made no secret of his desire to move towards a system
which values assets on a more consistent basis. That implies tougher rules
on when and how physical assets are revalued. This might also help square
the circle on goodwill. If all assets which can be reasonably valued are
held at current cost on the balance sheet, sceptics may find it easier to
swallow a similar treatment for acquired goodwill. Assuming, of course, that
a convincing method of valuing goodwill can be found.
The ASB is doubtless hoping that whatever compromise it suggests on acquired
goodwill will head off demands from areas of business that internally
generated intangible assets, such as brands, should have a place on the
balance sheet. Even so, the ASB would risk taking UK accounting standards
into an area beyond the international pale. In an era of cross-border
investment, international comparability of accounts has a value of its own.
The sight of Phillips - a pioneer of current cost accounting - abandoning
the system last week in favour of more internationally accepted practice
gives cause for thought.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

921221

