FT921-12082

FT  29 JAN 92 / Japanese economy in 'period of correction'


   By STEVEN BUTLER


   TOKYO


JAPAN'S Economic Planning Agency yesterday said the economy was in a period
of correction, or adjustment, for the first time in 15 years.
The agency's monthly report, although cautious, painted a picture of
underlying strength. It said consumer spending remained firm, and while
capital spending was not expanding, it remained at high levels. The agency
also saw signs that the decline in home construction had bottomed out.
The 'correction' referred to in the report was a shift of the economy to
non-inflationary stable growth. Use of the term amounted to a recognition by
the agency that some sectors of the economy were undergoing strain. The
report also cited a number of government measures to support the economy,
including the pre-New Year cut in the official discount rate by half a point
to 4.5 per cent, and budget proposals to boost public infrastructure
investment.
Meanwhile, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry yesterday said
industrial production in December was 1.4 per cent lower than in December
1990. This was the third consecutive month to register a year-on-year
decline. December's output was also 0.9 per cent lower than November's.
Perhaps most worrisome is the continuing steady rise in inventories, which
could foreshadow further cuts in production in coming months as
manufacturers try to balance output with demand. Inventories rose by 1.6 per
cent over November, leaving the index of inventories 12.8 per cent higher
than a year ago.
In total, industrial production expanded by 2.1 per cent in 1991, the lowest
rate of growth since 1986.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

920129

