FT921-11854

FT  30 JAN 92 / India and Israel in diplomatic link-up


   By HUGH CARNEGY and REUTER


   JERUSALEM


INDIA said yesterday it was establishing full diplomatic relations with
Israel for the first time, completing the Jewish state's links with Asia's
two most populous nations, after a similar decision by China last Friday.
The development has evoked satisfaction in Israel. Premier Yitzhak Shamir
noted this week that a long period of diplomatic isolation for Israel was
ending. In the past few months, most Arab countries have engaged Israel in
peace talks. The former Soviet Union, as well as China and India, all
backers of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, have set up diplomatic
ties, despite Mr Shamir's unyielding policies towards the Palestinians.
India, which built a close relationship with the PLO based partly on its
leading role in the non-aligned movement, apparently saw little point in
continuing to shun Israel. India may also have its eye on improving ties
with the US, Israel's main ally.
Meanwhile, working groups to discuss Mid-East disarmament, economic
development, water and the environment are expected to convene this spring
in Europe, the Middle East, Japan and the US. Agreement on more detailed
talks about regional issues involving Israel, its neighbours and other
nations was reached at the multinational forum, which concluded in Moscow
yesterday.
The Palestinians, excluded from the forum, want the issues of Jerusalem and
human rights addressed in working committees set up under the multilateral
umbrella.
Mr Shamir agreed in principle with the opposition Labour party yesterday to
hold a general election on June 23, Reuter reports. A Labour party spokesman
said the agreement would have to be approved by Labour leaders tomorrow.

The Financial Times


International Page 4

920130

