FT922-7215

FT  20 MAY 92 / Moscow still failing to meet IMF terms


   By LEYLA BOULTON


   MOSCOW


A TEAM from the International Monetary Fund is to leave Moscow without
agreeing the first draft of a Russian economic reform programme which would
unlock the Dollars 24bn promised by the west because key details remain
unresolved.
The Russian government had hoped to agree a letter of intent with the Fund
by today so that the final standby programme could be ready in time for
President Boris Yeltsin's meeting with Group of Seven leaders in Munich on
July 6-7. (It usually takes about a month between the time the letter of
intent is approved by Fund officials and the conclusion of a standby
programme allowing an IMF member access to Fund resources).
The visiting IMF officials are understood to have told the Russian
government that despite progress - including moves to liberalise internal
oil prices - more work needs to be done. Gaps include a system to control
monetary policy with the other former Soviet republics which still use the
rouble as their currency. Despite an ultimatum by Russia for republics to
decide whether to keep the rouble, Latvia and Belarus have for instance
confused matters by deciding to issue surrogate currencies while remaining
in the rouble zone.
Russia's most senior crime prevention officer yesterday urged the government
to plan for the consequences of the large-scale unemployment it expects to
result from the reforms.
Major-General Boris Voronov said President Yeltsin was yesterday presented
with proposals for giving enterprises tax benefits for offering jobs to
unemployed teenagers, and for the creation of voluntary bodies to help deal
with drug and alcohol abuse.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

920520

