FT924-791

FT  22 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: UK pensions


That Courtaulds Textiles can afford to take a slice out of its pension fund
surplus after three years of generally lousy investment returns testifies to
nimble fund management. Actuarial valuations of most company pension funds
are unlikely to be so kind. Many will reveal dwindling surpluses, marking
the end of contribution holidays. That means an unwelcome demand on cash
flow for some companies. But it could be good news for the equity and bond
markets as a whole.
One side of Courtaulds Textiles' arrangement takes Pounds 32m out of the
pension fund - invested predominantly in UK equities - and passes the cash
into company coffers. Too many similar instances would have an uncomfortable
impact on institutional cash flow. Courtaulds Textiles is by no means
unique. Its sister chemicals company has accumulated an equal embarrassment
of riches. But higher contributions from companies reaching the end of
pension fund holidays are likely comfortably to offset the cash withdrawals
of companies in the same position as Courtaulds.
Whether any company should be sharing out its pension fund surplus while the
investment outlook is so uncertain is another matter. In Courtaulds
Textiles' case, the action looks justified because by bringing the surplus
below the government threshold the fund avoids paying unnecessary tax. Since
the fund still shows a modest surplus on the government actuary's gloomy
assumptions - including dividends declining by 1.8 per cent a year in real
terms in perpetuity - it is hard to argue that benefits have been put at
risk.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921222

