FT922-479

FT  27 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: UK retailing


The stock market yesterday rightly took Thursday's surprise ruling on Sunday
trading in its stride. For one thing only a small number of councils are
sufficiently motivated or well organised to obtain the necessary
injunctions.
More to the point, the decision of the law lords to make the government
rather than local authorities responsible for compensating stores if the
1950 Shops Act proves to be incompatible with EC law puts new pressure on
ministers to rush through their own legislation. The European Court is
probably astute enough to fudge its verdict - but the Treasury will hardly
want to count on it.
That raises the question of whether Sunday trading for all means extra
profit for the retailers. The simple answer is that those currently opening
seven days a week would hardly be doing so if they did not see an advantage.
With many of their competitors closed while the legal situation remains
unclear, however, the incentive is mainly to grab market share. On the
demand side the argument hinges largely on whether retail sales will
ultimately command a bigger slice of consumer spending, with more money
spent in, say, Sainsbury than the local pub. There is little evidence of any
significant shift to date.
On the cost side you can look at it two ways: higher wages on the one hand
but fixed rents and rates and reduced waste for supermarkets working through
the weekend on the other. The most realistic approach, though, is to view
Sunday trading as merely increasing the UK's retailing capacity. That is
something the industry needs like a hole in the balance sheet.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920627

