FT922-7281

FT  19 MAY 92 / The Lex Column: House view at the Bank


This time almost exactly a year ago builders and mortgage-lenders were
queueing up to trumpet a revival in the UK housing market. Now they and
other commentators are understandably more coy, which is why an article in
the May issue of the Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin makes interesting,
not to say provocative, reading. With the help of a little econometric
modelling its authors conclude that reduced repossessions are likely to have
more impact on house prices than an interest rate change, and that prices
could rise by as much as 5 per cent given a 20,000 fall in the number of
houses repossessed.
Unfortunately events in the real world look less encouraging. All those
politically inspired rescue schemes which hit the headlines after Christmas
have gone quiet, though to be fair to building societies attempts to
persuade borrowers to become overnight tenants have met with a frosty
response. First-quarter county court statistics and Halifax figures from
November to April imply that the problem may have eased - but the evidence
of other building societies is mixed and few would bet on this year's
repossessions total ending much below 1991's 75,000-80,000.
Lenders are no doubt taking a more constructive stance: but it is a moot
point whether they, with or without government help, can afford to be more
lenient. As the Bank study points out, that might encourage others to
default or engage in reckless borrowing, thinking they could escape any
adverse consequences of their actions. The grim reality remains that there
is no quick fix to a repossessions crisis caused by the first fall in
nominal house prices since the 1950s and the high loan to house value ratios
of recent years. Buyers will expect discounts and incentives for some time.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920519

