FT924-5951

FT  24 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: BET


Yesterday's 20 per cent fall in BET's share price was its just punishment
for misjudging the cycle. The company's decision to replace its auction
market preferred shares with real equity through July's rights issue was
sensible enough. But that is scant comfort to shareholders who took up
rights at 110p in anticipation of a secure dividend. The message from
yesterday's interim results is that the pay-out cannot be sustained by cash
flow alone. With little immediate hope of an earnings recovery, and further
provisions expected in the second half, the company would be justified in
cutting this year's dividend. But that would be embarrassing after the
rights issue. Next year's dividend must now be in doubt. That BET could lose
its place in the FT-SE index is a further reason not to hold the shares.
The immediate problem is pressure from cut-priced competitors in markets
such as office cleaning and plant hire. Another swing of the axe across
BET's collection of loss making ventures should reduce the drag on profits.
If BET really can squeeze an operating margin of around 10 per cent from a
slimmed-down portfolio, operating profits of perhaps Pounds 150m may
eventually be attainable. The shares would then look cheap. With borrowing
back under control, the promise of a move into high growth areas like
contract catering would be less of a pipe dream.
This assumes, though, that margins get no worse in the near term and that
BET can dispose of the loss-makers. Given the speed of the down-turn since
the summer, there is no reason to take much on trust.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

921124

