FT924-12112

FT  22 OCT 92 / The Lex Column: UK economy


Given the balance of payments constraint, it would be foolish for Mr Major
to expect consumers to lead the UK economy out of recession. Confidence
among industrialists and exporters is probably now much more important. The
one is unlikely to exist without the other, though, which is why the retail
sales figures for September seem initially so encouraging. Yet, looked at
over the past year as a whole, the improvement - growth of 0.8 per cent - is
pretty marginal.
The September figures coincide with a period of unusually heavy discounting.
They also come in the immediate aftermath of the temporary rise in housing
market turnover prompted by the stamp duty exemption. Anecdotal evidence
suggests consumer confidence slipped again after Black Wednesday when the
full extent of the government's helplessness was revealed and a succession
of large-scale lay-offs were announced.
There is no particular reason why confidence should recover quickly, despite
the apparent reordering of the prime minister's priorities. Lower interest
rates alone will not compensate for job insecurity and the realisation that,
come what may, personal incomes are unlikely to rise much over the next few
years. Both are compelling reasons for consumers to avoid assuming more
debt. Lower rates will improve the cash-flow of households with mortgages.
With the savings rate already high, some of that money may find its way into
the shops. But there is unlikely to be a rush, especially now that real wage
growth is ebbing away. Retailers earlier waited in vain for higher real
wages to cure consumers of their debt aversion. They would be unwise to
place too much faith in lower interest rates succeeding where that solution
failed.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

921022

