FT924-1077

FT  19 DEC 92 / Property: Why you can bank on Gloucestershire - The
perennial appeal of an English county where even the Romans had central
heating in their houses


   By GERALD CADOGAN


GLOUCESTERSHIRE is more than a place on the map. That is inadequate for its
image as a state of mind - like Virginia, in the US - where gentlemen live
and old-fashioned manners and aristocratic, if not snobbish, attitudes rule.
But that is not the whole reason why City bankers pour west down the M4 on
Friday nights.
Next day's shooting and hunting await, or polo in the summer at Cirencester
before a congenial dinner party with. . . other bankers. Then there are
antique shops to visit, or the Coln Valley Smokery to get delicacies for
that dinner, and splendid gardens such as Hidcote, Kiftsgate and Barnsley.
It could be lunch at the Marsh Goose in Moreton-in-Marsh, followed by a tour
of the Cotswolds' noble churches. Or a visit to the Roman villas which, like
the churches, were built on wool money. (The Roman gentry anticipated 20th
century Gloucestershire with their comfortable, centrally heated living and
had their own mosaics studio in Corinium/Cirencester to build their floors).
Being tucked into the angle of the M4 and M5 is convenient and, if you are
going north-east, you still take the Romans' road to Leicester, the Fosse
Way (A429). Another attraction of this beautiful county is its tight
planning laws. Much of it remains unspoilt.
Gloucestershire's greatest advantage is that it has many liveable houses.
They are not stately homes demanding armies of non-existent local servants
but easy-to-maintain farmhouses, manors and old rectories. Even small
villages have two or three houses of this size; and in a prosperous town
such as Cirencester, they are many and grand.
Plenty are now for sale, many of them done up in the 1980s when
Gloucestershire boomed. Debt has forced some of these sales. 'It is one of
the three Ds to the house market,' says Tim Lawson of Knight, Frank &
Rutley. (Death and divorce are the others.) Many of the former farmhouses
have a few acres with them, enough to graze a hunter or children's ponies.
For real farmers, Lane Fox in Cirencester (0285-653-101) is offering
Slaughter Farm at Bourton-on-the-Water, a Georgian house with 372 acres,
cottages, barn, silage clamp and a kilometre of double bank trout fishing on
the Windrush, at around Pounds 1.15m in all. Outside Stow-on-the-Wold, the
Brellim House estate - where the annual horse fair still attracts the
gipsies - is for those who will bid over Pounds 1.3m to run a
state-of-the-art equestrian centre (through John D. Wood in Oxford: 0865-
311-522).
Berrimans at Lypiatt is also for serious horsemen. It features a
Kentucky-type barn with 10 loose boxes and 'staff rest room' for about
Pounds 495,000 (from Jackson-Stops in Cirencester: 0285-653-334).
If you dream of keeping a herd of deer, Knight Frank & Rutley in Cirencester
(0285-659-771) will wave the magic wand at Priors Meyne, Lydney, a
pink-stuccoed house overlooking the river Severn with 72 acres of park and
woods (for about Pounds 600,000) and the chance to buy the resident 50
fallow deer.
Houses with smaller parcels of land that will keep a horse include the
Edwardian Clifordine House at Rendcomb. It has a whirlpool bath to ease
limbs tired from hunting and can be had from Strutt & Parker in
Moreton-in-Marsh (0608-50502) at around Pounds 650,000.
Then there is the late-Georgian Close Farm House at Coberley - Pounds
587,500 from Allen & Harris in Cheltenham (0242-580-883) or Humberts
(0242-513-439) - and Ellenborough House, a well-converted barn near
Winchcombe with five holiday cottages producing a net income of around
Pounds 20,000 and well-placed for the Cheltenham Gold Cup. From Humberts for
around Pounds 675,000.
A typical Cotswold farmhouse with some land, barns and a cottage is Upper
Coscombe at Temple Guiting, from Savills in Banbury (0295-263-535) for
Pounds 550,000 (or Pounds 125,000 more to include a second cottage). Another
for horse-owners is Crows' Nest Farm at Upton St Leonards, outside
Gloucester, which has been made out of an old farmstead. The long views to
the Malvern Hills and Wales give the house its name; Knight Frank & Rutley
offers it at Pounds 450,000.
If you can live without horses, Bluegates near Berkeley Castle (where Edward
II met a sad end) and just 20 miles from Bristol is a Victorian red brick
farmhouse with one wall picked out in yellow and blue bricks. It lies in the
flat ground of the Severn valley, beyond the Cotswolds, where the weather is
much warmer. Cluttons in Bath (0225-469511) has it at Pounds 300,000.
Near Cirencester, some attractive cottages are on the market. Jackson-Stops
is selling two in Meysey Hampton at Pounds 97,500 and Pounds 184,000; one in
Edwards College, the terrace almshouse in South Cerney, on instructions from
the diocese, at Pounds 115,000 (and needing work); and the old village shop
in Eastleach, a more substantial building, at Pounds 285,000. In Birdlip,
between Gloucester and Cheltenham, Strutt & Parker offers Birdlip Farmhouse
at Pounds 130,000.
The grander village houses show how prosperous the wool trade was, and are
good places now in which to hole up when snow cuts off the estates on the
hills.
Best of the Georgian village houses is the handsome Colebrook House at
Blockley, near Moreton-in-Marsh. Built by a silk miller and featuring a
two-acre garden with brooks, Savills offers it at Pounds 495,000. Also in
Blockley is the converted Regency-style 1835 Ebenezer chapel, with
Jackson-Stops in Chipping Campden (0386-840-224) at around Pounds 285,000.
About a century older are two properties with walled gardens: the Oak House
in Tetbury, on offer from Humberts there (0666-502-284) at Pounds 325,000;
and Picton House in Broadway (the village well known for the Lygon Arms
hotel) which had an antiques shop on the ground floor with a flat above -
from Jackson-Stops at Pounds 750,000. The premium is in its 'fine retailing
position'.
Oldest of the pre-Georgian village houses is the basically Elizabethan Brook
Bend, in Weston Subedge at the foot of the Cotswolds near Chipping Campden
(from Jackson-Stops at Pounds 335,000); and the early-17th century Roberts
House in Siddington, south of Cirencester. It looks the ideal of a gabled
and stone-slated Cotswold house, and has a cottage which could contain
either the gardener (for its walled garden) or granny.
The Cirencester office of Jackson-Stops is selling it at around Pounds
675,000 and, for around Pounds 210,000, also offers the late-17th century
Glebe House in Avening, near Tetbury, which looks entrancing.
Twice that price is the 17th century Brimpsfield House in Brimpsfield,
between Cirencester and Gloucester, with a first-floor oriel window. This
house - from Knight Frank & Rutley, together with Halifax in Cirencester
(0285-650-576) - is for archaeologists or military historians. The remains
of its predecessor, a medieval castle, are in the grounds.

The Financial Times


London Page X

921219

