FT922-4123

FT  06 JUN 92 / UK Company News: Investors regret a lost chance


   By NORMA COHEN, Investments Correspondent


THE DECISION by Lloyds Bank to pull out of the bidding for its smaller
rival, Midland, was greeted with regret by investors. Many had not only
hoped for a more generous offer but had been hesitant at the thought of
holding a large stake in Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
'What a pity,' sighed one of Midland's main institutional shareholders, who
had championed Lloyds' bid.
Lloyds' success in paring its costs and focusing its business has won
admiration from its institutional shareholders. They had hoped it would turn
those skills on Midland. They were also uncertain about the merits of HSBC's
global operations and feared that its profitable Hong Kong activities would
cease after 1997.
The unease about holding HSBC shares is not significant enough, however, to
deter shareholders from taking advantage of the offer now that cash has been
added to the pot.
Investors also said that regardless of any concerns they might have about
HSBC's businesses, the new bank would be one of Britain's largest companies
and its shares would rank near the top of the key stock indices. Thus the
shares will have value because passive fund managers will have to own them
and active fund managers seeking to keep pace with the indices will have to
buy them.
Shareholders noted, however, that those institutions which had sold HSBC
shares short in the hope of covering the position with new shares are likely
to be disappointed. The current shares, which have a nominal value of
HKDollars 10 (70p) will be replaced by new ones with a face value of 75p.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

920606

