FT923-9477

FT  05 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: TI


The 10 per cent fall in TI's shares in response to yesterday's interim
figures poses the question of whether it can reap the full benefit of Dowty
without economic recovery. Some downward revision of Dowty's unaudited
full-year figures was expected. It was clearly in the interests of the
defending management to book profits as early as possible. Equally it is now
in the interests of TI to leave room for earnings growth. The slightly
disturbing factor is that it is not itself expecting such a recovery.
TI forecasts that the second-half contribution from Dowty will be no higher
than the Pounds 13m turned in in the same period last year. The market had
assumed the positive earnings trend reported by Dowty would be maintained
under new ownership. Perhaps it was being naive, but the episode underlines
how difficult it can be to value hostile bids in an uncertain trading
environment.
TI itself is open to criticism for not revealing the full details of its
post-acquisition valuation of Dowty this time around, although it promises a
thorough clean-out in the autumn. However, the market cannot have it both
ways; two years ago TI was vilified for taking a second chunk of goodwill
write-offs against Bundy, having hurried through the initial provisions.
Against this background, the performance of the shares yesterday looks like
a more basic rethink of TI's ability to ride out the recession. Excluding
Dowty, the interim figures were at the lower end of expectations. On a
prospective multiple of roughly 15 times, which the market generally
accepted, the shares stood until yesterday at an expensive 11 per cent
premium to the engineering sector and a 42 per cent premium to aerospace.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920805

