FT922-13434

FT  11 APR 92 / Briefcase, Q&A: A simple Spanish will


WE LIVE in Spain, but wish to be buried in Britain; we have reserved a plot
in the churchyard of my old parish and have obtained approval from the
diocese of Canterbury.
My husband owns the house we live in, and has made a Spanish will. He was
advised by a Spanish solicitor that it would be in order for him to make
another will (taking the place of a British will) for his worldwide assets,
written in Spanish and English and signed before a Spanish notary. He has
done this.
Some years ago I made a will in Britain appointing the solicitors acting for
me to be the executors and trustees. On re-reading this document I am
unhappy at the amount of licence the executors and trustees would have with
my capital.
My estate is small. There is no property. The total cash value is about
Pounds 35,000. I would like the money to be collected into a Jersey deposit
account, the interest from this to be paid to my husband during his
lifetime. After his death the money would be divided between my two nieces.
English solicitors seem reluctant to make such a simple will and want to put
in extra clauses.
If you are no longer domiciled in England you can revoke the English will
and leave your Spanish will to take effect. So long as you have no immovable
property in the UK a will valid under the law of your country of domicile
will be effective to dispose of your estate.
No legal responsibility can be accepted by the Financial Times for the
answers given in these columns. All inquiries will be answered by post as
soon as possible.

The Financial Times


London Page VI

920411

