FT921-11748

FT  30 JAN 92 / International Company News: Platinum returns put brake on
JCI


   By PHILIP GAWITH


   CAPE TOWN


JOHANNESBURG Consolidated Investment (JCI), the South African mining house
which controls the world's largest platinum group, reported a 5 per cent
increase in attributable earnings in the six months to the end of December.
Pre-tax profits increased to R176.4m (Dollars 63.4m) from R171.4m, and
attributable earnings were up to R166.1m from R158.4m. The vast bulk of this
 -R144.7m - came from investment income, with R16.8m attributable from
operating subsidiaries and R14.5m abnormal items.
Equity accounted earnings were only 1 per cent up at R190.6m following a
drop in the share of retained earnings from associated companies to R24.5m
from R30.7m. This was the result of lower 1991 earnings from Rustenburg
Platinum, the world's largest platinum producer. This offset the gains which
JCI received from Rusplats's higher 1991 dividends, reflected in the
investment income, and the abnormal item which was the result of Rusplats
paying a one-off dividend in specie.
Apart from the performance of Rusplats, earnings were hit by ferrochrome
producer CMI passing its dividend, a reflection of the difficult state of
world markets, and modest earnings from some of JCI's industrial interests
which include large stakes in South African Breweries, Premier Group, Argus
and Times Media.
The outlook for the second half is that earnings will proably be below 1991
levels. Rusplats cut its interim dividend by 30 per cent last weak and there
is not sign yet of recovery in the world platinum and rhodium price.
Earnings per share rose to 113 cents from 107 cents, and the dividend was
maintained at 42 cents.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

920130

