FT923-6561

FT  24 AUG 92 / Middle East orders Dollars 35bn in arms since invasion of
Kuwait


   By A Financial Times Reporter


MILITARY equipment and arms worth between Dollars 35bn and Dollars 45bn
(Pounds 18bn-Pounds 23bn) have been ordered by Middle Eastern countries
since Iraq invaded Kuwait, according to the Saferworld Foundation, a think
tank and pressure group based in Britain.
It suggests in a report today that 'unless the major powers and the
countries of the Middle East learn the lessons of history and work to reduce
and control arms transfers to the Middle East, the hopes for the peace
process, currently so high, may disappear beneath an arms race that
perpetuates instability, conflict and bloodshed in the Middle East.'
Saferworld says the US has received orders worth about Dollars 28.5bn,
principally from Saudi Arabia, which has ordered more than Dollars 17bn
worth of equipment.
The 1992 'Javit's list', which sets out the US's expected arms exports for
the year, predicts sales worth Dollars 35bn, mostly to countries in the
Middle East.
The report says the US government 'has helped its manufacturers by providing
Desert Storm veterans to recount their experiences at arms fairs, such as
the Paris Air Show. The Pentagon has also provided equipment used in the
Gulf War free of charge, saving manufacturers hundreds of thousands of
dollars in leasing and transport costs.'
Saferworld says the UK has received orders worth about Dollars 4bn in which
Tornados, Hawks and other aircraft figure prominently. 'Russia, Germany,
North Korea, China, Czechoslovakia, France and other industrialised
countries have all received orders from the Middle East. Saudi Arabia,
Israel, Kuwait, Iran, Turkey, Egypt and Syria lead the importing nations.'

The Financial Times


London Page 3

920824

