FT923-10722

FT  29 JUL 92 / International Company News: AECI trading income gains 9%


   By PHILIP GAWITH


   JOHANNESBURG


WEAK international and domestic markets prevented AECI, South Africa's
largest chemical group, from improving earnings in the six months to
end-June, despite the low 1991 base when earnings fell 56 per cent for the
same period.
Turnover rose 1 per cent to R2.52bn (Dollars 91.3m) from R2.5bn and net
trading income gained 9 per cent, to R148m from R136m. But higher finance
costs left attributable income unchanged at R50m. The interim dividend was
maintained at 18 cents a share on unchanged earnings of 32 cents a share.
A feature of the results was the 46 per cent increase in export revenues,
which rose to R296m from R203m. Exports were higher across the range of
group products including plastics, fibres and fertilisers, with a large
portion of the increased sales being to the east, South America and Africa.
The improved export performance reflected, in part, AECI's drive to develop
internationally competitive export businesses. A more important factor,
however, was the exceptionally weak demand across the whole range of AECI's
domestic markets. Export margins are generally lower than in domestic
markets.
Mr Neale Axelson, financial director, said the results were worse than
expected because of the slower than anticipated US economic recovery, the
severe drought in South Africa, and ongoing weakness in world commodity
prices.
These factors, which show little sign of an early correction, have led the
group to revise downward its forecast of a 'moderate improvement in
earnings' for the year.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

920729

