FT924-6343

FT  21 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: That strain again


At least sterling is on the sidelines this time. Otherwise, the unrest in
the ERM looks like a re-run of last September when one currency after
another came under attack. Norway may now end up having to float and at some
stage an ERM realignment involving the Spanish peseta, Portuguese escudo and
Irish punt looks inevitable. That much would simply settle business left
unfinished from the last bout of trouble; the three weakest currencies in
the system were clearly overvalued after the depreciation sustained by
sterling and the lira.
The harder questions are whether the French franc is vulnerable and, if so,
whether Germany can be persuaded to calm the markets down with a rate cut.
The Bundesbank is still worried about government's lack of grip on the
budget, not to mention the effect of January's VAT increase and the level of
wage increases. Short of a sustained attack on the French franc - which is
still showing no sign of strain within the system - it would probably still
be reluctant to relax further for the time being.
Yet Sweden's decision to float its currency has again highlighted the
absurdity of running a tight money policy in the face of recession.
Germany's problems are not nearly as bad, but the weakness of the D-Mark
against both the dollar and the Swiss franc suggests the foreign exchange
markets are less convinced than before about how long a tight money policy
can be sustained. One must be wary of premature celebration, but the day may
not be too far off when monetary policy across Europe as a whole shifts
towards growth. That prospect, and the hope that the French can be finally
persuaded to sign up to a Gatt agreement, amply justify yesterday's 26 point
gain in the FT-SE.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

921121

