FT921-3686

FT  13 MAR 92 / February car production up 4.9% year-on-year


   By KEVIN DONE, Motor Industry Correspondent


UK CAR production last month was 4.9 per cent higher than in February last
year - the first year-on-year increase in output for seven months.
Commercial vehicle production rose by 13.2 per cent, reinforcing the
stronger trend of recent months.
Output of commercial vehicles has been higher than a year ago in three of
the last four months, helped by rising small van production by Ford, which
added its Courier high-roof Fiesta van range at its Dagenham plant late last
year.
Car production last month rose to 114,492 from 109,160 in the same month a
year ago, when Ford's Halewood, Merseyside plant was operating a shortened
working week.
The production increase resulted from a surprising 23.5 per cent jump in
output for the still depressed domestic market to 66,485, which more than
compensated for the 15.7 per cent fall in output for export markets to
48,007.
In the wake of the heavy 16.1 per cent fall in car output in January, car
production in the first two months of the year at 209,737 was still 5.8 per
cent lower than in the same period a year ago.
According to figures released yesterday by the Society of Motor
Manufacturers and Traders and the Central Statistical Office, car output in
the last six months on a seasonally adjusted basis was 10 per cent lower
than in the previous six months and 15 per cent lower than in the same six
months a year ago.
By contrast commercial vehicle output in the six months to the end of
February on a seasonally adjusted basis was 23 per cent higher than in the
previous six months and 2 per cent higher than in the same six months a year
ago.
Commercial vehicle output last month alone at 21,315 was 13.2 per cent
higher than a year ago and production in the first two months of this year
at 22,639 was 27.3 per cent higher than in the same period a year earlier.

The Financial Times


London Page 8

920313

