FT924-793

FT  22 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: Protected returns


European Community foreign ministers failed to make up their minds on
whether to upgrade the EC's trade policy armoury yesterday. But there is no
mistaking the increase in protectionist pressure as completion of the single
market draws near. Adding to the fear that EC companies would be unable to
stand increased internal competition without extra external protection is
worry about imports flooding in from eastern Europe.
The risk of Fortress Europe would diminish if Sir Leon Brittan were to
assume responsibility for trade policy in the new Commission. Yet
anti-dumping will be one of the few trade policy instruments left in the
single market. There is a natural desire to make it easier to use. Which
raises the question of the impact of protection on corporate earnings.
Conventional wisdom says the larger benefit usually accrues to the efficient
foreign exporter whose goods are being targeted. This company pockets extra
margin. The protected company suffers from reduced growth at home as prices
consumers must pay are raised. It also has less incentive to rationalise.
Restrictions on consumer electronics imports did little for Philips. Its
shares underperformed Matsushita by more than 20 per cent in the last 10
years. The evidence, though, is far from clear-cut. Peugeot outperformed
Honda by a factor of eight over the same period. GEC outperformed Mitsubishi
Electric by 8 per cent, admittedly thanks to a steep relative improvement
since 1990.
Then again, such comparisons are crude. Perhaps more competition inside the
single market will offset the indolence induced by protection. It is easy to
forget that a combination of tough domestic competition and external
protection helped Japanese companies succeed in the 1980s.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921222

