FT921-15556

FT  09 JAN 92 / Architects see sign of rise in workload


   By ANDREW BAXTER


ARCHITECTS are expressing cautious optimism for the first time since October
1989 about the prospect of their workloads increasing this year. The
profession has been severely affected by the recession in the construction
industry.
According to the periodical RIBA Leads, published jointly by the Royal
Institute of British Architects and Carmargue Communications, more
architects expect an increase in workloads this year than expect a fall.
Only those architects in the south of England expect workloads to fall
further in the next six months. The most optimistic are those in Scotland.
The depth of the recession can be gauged by the number of abandoned
projects, the periodical says. During the past 12 months, 41 per cent of new
commissions and 36 per cent of projects that reached the production drawing
stage were abandoned or postponed. In the north of England, 75 per cent of
new commissions were abandoned or postponed.
Big firms are more optimistic for the coming six months, 37 per cent of
those employing 11 or more staff predicting an increase in workload, and 22
per cent forecasting a decline. Overall, 32 per cent of firms see workloads
rising, 28 per cent predict a fall, and 10 per cent foresee stable
workloads.
Figures for architects' workloads in the third quarter of last year show
that new commissions for housing rose to Pounds 1.49bn, from Pounds 1.38bn
in the second quarter.
RIBA Leads. The Coach House, 32 Evesham Road, Cheltenham, Glos GL52 2AG.
Subscription Pounds 115 a year (Pounds 90 for RIBA members).

The Financial Times


London Page 7

920109

