FT922-7173

FT  20 MAY 92 / The Lex Column: Allied-Lyons


Yesterday's annual figures from Allied-Lyons are very much the product of
the company's recent turbulent history. On the surface, pre-tax profits
after property disposals rose 28 per cent. But if the 1990-91 comparative
figure is adjusted for that year's currency-trading loss, profits would
actually have fallen by 2 per cent. Moreover, the 1991-92 result is
flattered by a Pounds 61m credit from sales of businesses which in turn
masks a Pounds 71m exceptional provision for reorganisation. Cynics might
say that unwinding the provision will reduce the quality of earnings in
future years. Such a view took the upper hand in the market yesterday, as
the shares were marked down by just over 1 per cent.
All the same, the underlying picture is not bad for a recession year.
Trading profit, struck before the exceptional items and property disposals,
was up by nearly 4 per cent. Hiram Walker is producing impressive growth in
Spain and Japan, while the continuing food businesses were up by a healthy
11 per cent. As the new management tightens its grip there should be less
reason for Allied-Lyons to trade at a discount to the likes of Guinness and
Grand Metropolitan. Its growth could even be faster because it has some
catching up to do.
First, however, it must settle its differences with the competition
authorities. Though Allied-Lyons claims to have reached an accommodation
with the Office of Fair Trading on its pub-licensing deal with Brent Walker,
it is cagey about the details and about how much it will have to water down
the accompanying supply agreement. More important to the market is the fate
of its joint venture with Carlsberg. Though probably over-rated in terms of
its long-term significance, this will hang over the price until the
government reaches its decision later in the summer.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920520

