FT924-5961

FT  24 NOV 92 / Letter: An unnecessary burden on UK small businesses


   From Mr BRYAN CASSIDY MEP


Sir, An item in the Observer column ('Advising the advisers', November 12)
about Michael Heseltine's recruitment of Lord Sainsbury as part of his
renewed campaign to tackle the burden of red tape on British business
contrasted oddly with the adjoining advertisement by the Health and Safety
Executive with the headline 'Europe's tightening up on Health and Safety at
Work'.
May I suggest that among Lord Sainsbury's first tasks is to look at the new
HSE regulations. He will find that they go way beyond the requirements of
the European Community's directives on health and safety. Among other
things, the UK regulations extend to self-employed persons and they require
a written risk assessment for all promises in which more than five people
are employed.
The EC directive makes no reference to the self-employed, no reference to
the need for written risk assessments and, in particular, stresses the
importance of avoiding placing unnecessary burdens on small and medium
enterprises.
The Health and Safety Commission somewhat vaguely estimates that the cost of
introducing these new regulations will be between Pounds 12.5m and Pounds
50m in the first year and that running costs will be Pounds 70m per year
thereafter. Many people reckon that the true cost to British business will
be much higher.
Are the new health and safety regulations an example of an unlevel playing
field being created to hinder British business in competing in the single
market?
Bryan Cassidy,
European Parliament,
Constituency HQ,
The Stables,
White Cliff Gardens,
Blandford,
Dorset DT11 7BU

The Financial Times


London Page 21

921124

