FT923-15689

FT  01 JUL 92 / The Lex Column: Anglian


Of all the UK companies which pushed the button for a midsummer float,
Anglian's decision looked smartest at the time. That apparent post-election
surge in consumer confidence, it was assumed, would not only translate into
economic recovery. The impact when it came would be demonstrated first by
renewed activity in the housing market on which double-glazing manufacturers
such as Anglian at least partially depend.
Such rosy expectations have since been shattered with the result that
yesterday's offer price is perhaps 12 per cent below what the company might
have hoped for just a couple of weeks ago, and 20 per cent less than what
some of the more optimistic venture capitalists had earlier pencilled in.
Even at 210p, however, the shares are not necessarily a bargain.
Admittedly the 12.2 times historic earnings multiple - or perhaps a point
less than this prospectively - looks attractive by comparison with
businesses which share some of the same features such as Hepworth, MB
Caradon and Wolseley. A 5.5 per cent yield, moreover, is hardly stingy:
Anglian's two times cover should permit some sort of dividend increase this
year. The difficulty is that the nature of the product and the company's
narrow dependence on it justify at least part of the differential. The rest
could arguably be explained by still unrealistically high ratings elsewhere.
The best that can be said is that there are few short-term risks in
subscribing; with institutions deeply reluctant to increase their weightings
in an unfashionable sector, though, investors should not expect much
excitement in the after market.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920701

