FT924-6164

FT  23 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Short changed


Perhaps European monetary officials secretly enjoy spending the weekend in
Brussels. They certainly seem to have left themselves an opportunity for a
repeat visit after yesterday's ERM realignment. The escudo still looks
overvalued; the Irish punt is untouched despite appreciating nearly 15 per
cent against sterling since mid-September. More importantly, the effective
appreciation of the D-Mark appears too small for a further cut in German
interest rates.
Without some prospect of lower German rates, the residual tensions in the
system will not easily be unwound. True, Portugal and Ireland are shielded
to some extent by exchange controls. The latter, along with Denmark and
France, can boast stronger economic fundamentals than Germany. Yet Paris can
scarcely relish a continuing period of enforced tight money. Its reluctance
to endorse the EC-US farm trade agreement is a sign of insecurity which may
encourage the foreign exchange markets to attack. The European authorities
must hope a changing perception of the D-Mark itself will save the day.
Economic weakness and the social strains from unification have reduced the
D-Mark's attraction against the dollar and the Swiss franc. The trouble is
that a stronger dollar may give the Bundesbank one more reason for not
cutting rates. Sooner or later, however, the tension will have to be
resolved through a shift to easier money. If this realignment helps European
equity markets to look forward to that point, they may even have grounds to
feel encouraged.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

921123

