FT922-4091

FT  08 JUN 92 / Construction Contracts: Pounds 34m work for Lonrho companies


The contracting divisions of Lonrho, BERNARD SUNLEY & SONS and TURRIFF
CONSTRUCTION, have won UK contracts worth over Pounds 34m during recent
months.
Some of the contracts won by Bernard Sunley & Sons include alterations and
fitting out of offices and a new depot and industrial units at Croydon for
Seeboard at a combined value of Pounds 7.1m, a sheltered housing scheme at
Guildford for Guildford Borough Council valued at Pounds 3.2m, the design
and construction of a welfare complex in London for the BBC valued at Pounds
2.1m, design and construction of a 24-lane bowling club and a bingo club at
Telford for Barkin Development together with its fitting-out for the Rank
Organisation at a combined value of Pounds 2.3m, office extension and
warehouse at Enfield for JW Spear & Sons valued at Pounds 1.3m, the
refurbishment of a transmission station at Potters Bar for the BBC valued at
Pounds 500,000 and construction of New Gate Lodge at Luton for Vauxhall
Motors valued at Pounds 500,000.
Turriff Construction's recent contracts include the construction of a
mechanised letter office at Manchester for Royal Mail Property Holdings
valued at Pounds 8.8m, the design and construction of a three-storey office
block at Telford for London and Telford Developments valued at Pounds 2.2m,
a sheltered housing scheme and conversion of 20 dwellings into 32 homes at
Birmingham for Mercian Housing Association, valued at Pounds 1.9m,
refurbishment works to a factory at Salford for Colgate Palmolive valued at
Pounds 1.3m and civil works at a new substation at Newark-on-Trent for The
National Grid Company, valued at Pounds 820,000.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

920608

