FT924-11447

FT  26 OCT 92 / The Lex Column: British Steel


Poor old British Steel. Having struggled for so long against subsidised
European competitors, it must have thought last month's devaluation would
provide a real break. Unfortunately the losses announced last week by Usinor
Sacilor and production cutbacks at Thyssen Stahl are a rude reminder of how
weak the continental market remains. Not only is the German car industry
turning down; western Europe has been flooded by cheap imports from the
east, and Italian producers, whose currency has also been devalued, are
continuing to offer heavy discounts.
Some excess European capacity is at least being cut back, but market
weakness more or less offsets the devaluation benefits to British Steel.
True, it would stand to gain if the European Commission were to erect
Community-wide import barriers against eastern Europe. But so far the
Commission has simply allowed bilateral restraints against Czechoslovakian
steel to be imposed by France, Germany and Italy. That leaves British Steel
out in the cold, as would any increase in the rate of subsidy allowed to
continental producers.
Against this background it would be rash to assume that British Steel can
automatically maintain its 4.5p dividend for the current year. The payment
was already cut from 8.75p in 1991-92 after the company declared a pre-tax
loss of Pounds 55m and moved from a net cash position of Pounds 353m to net
debt of Pounds 11m. Its operational gearing is considerable, but higher
volume will depend on a recovery which seems to be growing more elusive. The
historic yield of slightly under 10 per cent leaves the shares looking
expensive.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921026

