FT921-15547

FT  09 JAN 92 / MP seeks company safety disclosures


   By IVOR OWEN, Parliamentary Correspondent


COMPANIES that neglect workers' safety or damage the environment will face
bad publicity if a private member's bill becomes law.
Mr Jeff Rooker, Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr, said yesterday that his
bill, due to be debated on January 17, would ensure that companies breaking
environmental laws or injuring employees would no longer be able to go on
pretending to be 'models of social responsibility'.
The Corporate Safety and Environmental Information Bill seeks to require
companies with more than 50 employees to include in their annual reports
details of convictions for safety or environmental offences, the number of
occasions they have been served with enforcement notices by regulatory
authorities, the total of serious and fatal accidents to employees, and
compensation payments made to persons injured by their activities or
products.
Mr Rooker believes the resultant publicity would enable concerned investors
to bring pressure to bear on companies that fail to meet their
responsibilities. He says the public would be less vulnerable to public
relations exercises designed to cover up failures to comply with safety and
environmental laws.
The bill, which faces a difficult passage in the Commons, has been drafted
by the Campaign for Freedom of Information and the Citizen Action
Compensation Campaign. A statement by the two organisations said the annual
reports of 22 large companies failed to mention recent convictions for
breaches of safety or environmental laws.

The Financial Times


London Page 7

920109

