FT923-15685

FT  01 JUL 92 / UK Company News: BM annoys institutions as share price falls
again


   By RICHARD GOURLAY


THE SHARE slide at BM, the construction equipment and engineering group,
continued yesterday following last week's resignation for health reasons of
Mr Roger Shute, the founder-chairman, and Monday's profits downgrading by
Kleinwort Benson, the company's broker.
The share price fell from 150p to 113p. One analyst called it 'a meltdown'
following what appears to have been a collapse of confidence in the company.
The fall came as Baillie Gifford, the Scottish institution, announced that
it had raised its stake in the group last Friday to 5.05 per cent. Since the
start of June the share price has fallen from 398p, wiping over 70 per cent
from BM's stock market valuation.
The board, led by Mr Matthew Thorne, the new non-executive chairman, began
talking to its institutional shareholders yesterday but is understood to
have annoyed some of its largest shareholders by addressing a meeting of
analysts first.
Analysts at that meeting said BM had continued a tradition begun by Mr Shute
of not being particularly forthcoming with information about the company.
While this was generally accepted from Mr Shute, who developed a strong City
backing at a time when BM's profits and earnings were rising rapidly, the
market urgently needed more specific answers now that the share price was in
free fall.
In particular shareholders would like to know how two crucial distribution
contracts with Komatsu and Hitachi, the Japanese heavy construction
machinery manufacturers, would be affected by the departure of Mr Shute who
developed the relationships.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920701

