FT924-816

FT  22 DEC 92 / People: Change of heart at Chrysalis


Spurred on by the Cadbury report, music publishing communications and media
company Chrysalis is appointing three non-executive directors - the first
outside directors on the board since the company was merged with Management
Agency and Music in 1985.
Chris Wright, chairman and chief executive, says his previous group managing
director, Terry Connolly, who left three years ago, had been 'very much
opposed to non-executive directors; he didn't think they served a useful
purpose'.
Now Chrysalis has chosen as its most senior non-executive Charles Levison,
previously managing director of WEA Records/Warner Home Video (UK) and then,
until last year, managing director of Virgin Broadcasting. Levison, who is
also a trained lawyer, will chair the audit and remuneration committees at
Chrysalis.
Wright had no need of a headhunter to locate his first non-executive whom he
has known since the late 1960s when Levison was a partner specialising in
the music industry at Harbottle & Lewis. He says he hopes Levison, 50, will
also help the company develop relations with the City, a side Wright admits
he has not been inclined to pay much attention to himself. One of his other
two non-executives will have an accountancy background, with the other
probably coming from the creative side. Again avoiding the headhunting
route, Wright says he will solicit his fellow board members for names of
suitable candidates.
Levison is currently putting together the joint venture between Virgin and
TV-am for Virgin Radio, a national rock station to be launched shortly.
Chrysalis has, however, negotiated first right of refusal over any media
ideas or proposals Levison may have after he joins its board.

The Financial Times


London Page 8

921222

