FT924-5980

FT  24 NOV 92 / People: Board replacements at LEP


LEP Group, the heavily-indebted freight forwarding and security concern, has
made board changes intended to assist David James, the company doctor who
has been advising the group since March and became chairman and chief
executive in August.
John East, who has been with Lep since 1988, has resigned as finance
director. He will receive Pounds 85,000 in compensation plus consultancy
fees of more than Pounds 100,000 for helping James to investigate last
year's heavy losses and litigation involving ADT, the security group which
has written off Pounds 65m on its investment in Lep, and John Read, who
resigned as Lep's chairman last November.
Mike Kirkman has resigned as human resources director and will receive
compensation of Pounds 220,000. He joined the group in June last year and
was heavily involved in negotiating this summer's rescue package, which
involved 25 banks swapping debt for equity in the restructured company.
They are being replaced by Digby Davies, 34, and Ronald Series, 41, two
South African-trained chartered accountants who have already worked with
James on the Lep reconstruction, and will take executive responsibility for
the group's accounting, financial, administrative and treasury functions.
East and Kirkman have also resigned as directors of Lassen Trustees, which
runs Lep's pension fund. East was one of the directors of Lassen last year
when it agreed to buy a property from Lep for Pounds 12.5m, boosting Lep's
interim results. The property was subsequently valued at Pounds 8.5m,
causing a shortfall in the pension fund.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

921124

