FT921-11875

FT  29 JAN 92 / International Company News: McDonnell Douglas earnings rise
to Dollars 211m


   By MARTIN DICKSON


MCDONNELL Douglas, the financially-stretched US defence and aerospace group,
yesterday underscored its improving health by reporting a sharp increase in
fourth-quarter earnings and a further reduction in its debt burden.
The St Louis-based company, which is being hit by the downturn in US defence
spending, reported net earnings of Dollars 211m, or Dollars 5.50 a share,
compared with break-even in the fourth quarter of last year, when the
company took a Dollars 219m after-tax provision for the cancelled A-12
aircraft programme.
Revenues totalled Dollars 1.5bn, against Dollars 1.12bn. For the full year,
the group earned Dollars 423m, or Dollars 11.03 a share, compared with
Dollars 306m, or Dollars 7.99 in 1990.
The company's debt - apart from its financial services unit - fell to
Dollars 2.39bn at the year-end, against Dollars 2.68bn three months before,
giving a debt-to-equity ratio of .68. The level of debt has dropped 28 per
cent since its peak last March, when analysts questioned if the company
might have to file for bankruptcy. The company still needs capital to
develop aircraft and Taiwan Aerospace is considering buying a 40 per cent
stake in its civil aircraft operations for Dollars 2bn.
Behind the improving balance sheet and profit figures is a much better
performance at its civil aircraft business, which began deliveries of its
new wide-bodied jet, the MD-11, just before the start of 1991. This segment
had operating earnings of Dollars 90m in the fourth quarter, against Dollars
38m a year before, despite a Dollars 30m loss on the C-17 transport aircraft
being developed for the US military. McDonnell's combat aircraft segment
earned Dollars 107m in the fourth quarter, up from Dollars 96m a year
before, when the A-12 provision is stripped out. The missiles and space
business saw profits dip from Dollars 59m to Dollars 51m, while financial
services boosted profits from Dollars 6m to Dollars 11m, helped by asset
sales.
The group's overall fourth-quarter figures were flattered by settlement of a
tax dispute, which produced a Dollars 107m cut in previously accrued
interest expense.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

920129

