FT924-790

FT  22 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: Lucas


It is perplexing that Lucas, which constantly lauds the virtues of the
long-term approach, should choose to sell its fluid power systems business
near the bottom of the cycle. Although the disposal was flagged in the
company's latest annual report, Lucas is jettisoning a long-established
company just when it might flourish from a US recovery. The suspicion
remains that the disposal programme is motivated more by a desire to
maintain the dividend than to preserve long-term value. The sale may realise
a useful Pounds 30m. Further asset sales could bring total disposal proceeds
to Pounds 100m by the financial year-end.
Lucas argues that an earnings recovery will enable it to preserve the payout
this year. But it is difficult to see from where the necessary uplift will
come. Prospects for the aerospace arm remain unfathomable given its
dependence on the stricken defence sector. The automotive side will continue
to suffer from the travails of the truck market and the downwards lurch
among German carmakers.
Still, Lucas undoubtedly retains a powerful position in these markets. And
with margins of only 1 per cent on sales of Pounds 2.3bn it possesses
considerable recovery potential. The question remains: who will best realise
it? Management may have decided that a hasty sale of the family brass is the
best defence against the much-rumoured bid. The problem is that without a
bid premium, Lucas's shares look unduly heavy.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921222

