FT924-5950

FT  24 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Westinghouse


The sharp initial bounce in Westinghouse's shares following yesterday's
restructuring announcement is an expression of relief that the nettle has
finally been grasped. Westinghouse's financial services business has haunted
the management for well over two years. There has been a frightening spiral
of provisions - Dollars 975m in February 1991, Dollars 1.7bn in October
1991, and now Dollars 2.35bn in the fourth quarter of 1992, plus an
incidental Dollars 300m of operating losses while the disposal is completed.
Given the trend, investors can be forgiven for wondering whether even these
sums will be enough to rid them of the nightmare.
Even if it is, there is little reason to relax. Each of the company's three
remaining core businesses faces difficulties. Few nuclear stations will be
built. Yet in conventional plant Westinghouse's emphasis on project
management involves it in lower margin areas of construction, while its
arch-competitor General Electric seems to have a sharper focus on
higher-tech, and higher margin, manufacturing. The electronic systems
division is heavily dependent on the hard-pressed US military. Environmental
systems faces opposition to construction of more toxic waste incinerators.
It is not yet clear that the new structure will be able to deal with these
problems. And presumably employees phlegmatically regard the company pension
fund's phased investment in Dollars 400m of Westinghouse stock as just one
more hazard.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

921124

