FT922-643

FT  26 JUN 92 / Commodities and Agriculture: Flooded Bolivian farmers on
hunger strike


   By FRANCIS FREISINGER


   SANTA CRUZ


THE BOLIVIAN Eastern Farmers Chamber (CAO) has declared an indefinite hunger
strike in protest at the lack of government aid in the wake of the
agricultural disaster that has struck the Santa Cruz department as a result
of months of flooding. Peasant groups have announced other measures in
support of the CAO - including road blocks - and a regional general strike
may follow.
Santa Cruz in the east of the country, which produces 90 per cent of
Bolivia's agricultural exports, principally soyabeans and sugar, has been
devastated since January by the worst floods in living memory. At least a
third and possibly as much as half the crop has been lost already and the
sowing of the next crop has been seriously disrupted, the losses will
continue for another harvest. At least Dollars l00m has been lost to date, a
vast sum for Bolivia. As a result there will be a marked reduction in GNP
growth this year according to economists.
Nearly a hundred farmers from the CAO have joined the hunger strike,
including some of the wealthiest men in the country, and as many as 500 more
are poised to follow. In a remarkable development, the hardline right-wing
farmers have literally become bedfellows with their traditional enemy, the
Bolivian Workers' Central (COB), the national union confederation which
still adheres, at least in theory, to a revolutionary Marxist ideology. Some
of COB leaders have joined the hunger strike and are now sleeping in the
same room as the farmers.
The farmers are calling for much more direct government and international
assistance as well as rescheduling of loans from both private banks and
multinational institutions, principally the Inter-American Development Bank.
They are demanding special help for the smaller farmers, worst hit
financially because of their lack of access to credit, as a result of which
thousands face bankruptcy. The CAO President, Mr Sergio Justiniano said: 'We
will remain on hunger strike until a global solution is found'.
The flooding is partly the result of exceptionally heavy rains that have
accompanied the El Nino cyclical Pacific weather phenomenon, which has also
brought flooding this year to Peru and Ecuador. However, according to
ecologists, the effect has been exacerbated in Bolivia by the extensive
deforestation that has accompanied the agricultural boom of the past few
years
Despite officially declaring the region a disaster zone, the government
claims that it is unable to help. Mr Hugo Lozino, minister of peasant
development said: 'We have done what we can. Bolivia is a poor country and
can't afford to do more'.
It seems unlikely, however, that the government will be able to resist the
powerful alliance confronting it, especially as it faces unrest in other key
sectors, including mining.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

920626

