FT921-15319

FT  10 JAN 92 / The Lex Column: The curse of the car dealers


FT-SE Index: 2,497.9 (+30.8)
The Japanese car industry's agreement to double its use of US-made
components looks a folly almost as monumental as the two countries'
semi-conductor pact of 1986. That agreement led to exaggerated US
expectations of the Japanese market, recurring bilateral friction, trade
sanctions and an embarrassing investigation by the Gatt. It did nothing to
reduce Japan's trade surplus with the US.
The safest bet is that the car pact will be equally damaging, especially as
Japanese manufacturers were already warning on US quality and price
yesterday afternoon. There is little prospect of the deal doing much to help
the beleaguered US industry. But it does contain the seeds of more trade
disputes over the medium term, incidentally putting Tokyo under continuing
pressure to tailor its exchange rate and economic policy to Washington's
requirements. Worse still, the US has shoved Japan a further step down the
road to managed trade, the last thing needed by a fragile world economy.
There are implications at the European corporate level, too. The main impact
is supposed to be on procurement by the US plants of Japanese car companies.
But in so far as Japanese imports of US components and, indeed, finished
cars are also supposed to rise, this will be at the expense of European
manufacturers like Lucas, Bosch, Daimler-Benz, BMW and Rover. Awkwardly for
them, Messrs Bush and Miyazawa have used an old trick of making the deal a
'voluntary' industry-to-industry agreement, which puts it outside the remit
of the Gatt.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920110

