FT923-10942

FT  28 JUL 92 / The Lex Column: Pibs


The appetite of UK institutional investors for undated, fixed interest
securities has proved astonishing. Building societies alone have raised over
Pounds 500m by issuing permanent interest-bearing shares (Pibs) since this
new form of regulatory capital was legislated into existence last June. Add
issues of undated preference shares by the likes of NatWest, Barings and
Commercial Union, and the UK financial sector has raised close to Pounds 1bn
in permanent capital over the last year.
This prodigious rate is unlikely to be sustained. Among the big building
societies, only Nationwide is still hovering. Sterling asset growth for both
banks and building societies remains stunted by recession. Moreover,
experience of illiquidity with other irredeemable instruments - such as
subordinated floating rate notes issued by banks in the mid-1980s - should
prove cautionary. Enough fund managers remain circumspect about the
liquidity of Pibs and undated preference shares to place a natural limit on
the capacity of the market. While retail appetite for income bonds has
worked to the benefit of building societies as well as the government's
national savings scheme, it is not sufficient to support the Pibs market on
its own.
In retrospect, it is clear that the birth of the Pibs market coincided with
a shift in institutional attitudes towards fixed interest securities. Few UK
life companies are likely to match the 60 per cent weighting to sterling
bonds now claimed by Scottish Amicable, but institutional inflows are
certainly being channelled towards bonds. If this allows the UK financial
system to top up on capital without recourse to the equity market, so much
the better.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920728

