FT924-12078

FT  22 OCT 92 / UK Company News: Thomson-CSF warns on year after first-half
slide


   By WILLIAM DAWKINS


   PARIS


THOMSON-CSF, the French state-controlled defence electronics supplier,
yesterday announced a 24.6 per cent decline in net profits for the first
half of the year and warned that it was expecting a fall in earnings for
1992 as a whole.
Profits fell in line with analysts' forecasts to FFr848m (Dollars 164.5m) in
the six months to June, from FFr1.12bn net in the first half of last year,
on a a 10.5 per cent decline in sales to FFr14.76bn over the same period.
Last April, Thomson-CSF forecast a profits increase for 1992, but warned
last month that it would not meet this target because of the collapse in
profits at Credit Lyonnais, the state-owned bank in which Thomson-CSF has a
15.5 per cent stake. Thomson-CSF has also had to pull out of a deal to buy
the missiles division of LTV of the US after running into political
opposition based on fears of domination by the French defence industry.
The group blamed the sales decline in the first half on the completion of
one of its largest contracts, to sell ground-to-air missiles to Saudi
Arabia, and the fact that missiles sales in the first half of 1991 were
unusually high due to the Gulf war. Accordingly, the missiles division
recorded a 35 per cent drop in sales. Earlier forecasts of a 5 per cent
decline in overall group sales this year were still valid, said Thomson-CSF.
Operating profits fell by 12 per cent to FFr935m from FFr1.06bn in the first
six months, where they represented 6.3 per cent of turnover, a small
improvement on the operating margin of 6.1 per cent in the first half of
last year.
Minorities contributed FFr214m to net profits, up from FFr65m, mainly due to
the treasury bank Altus Finance and SGS-Thomson, the Franco-Italian
semiconductor supplier. However, there was a FFr50m extraordinary loss, as
against a FFr167m extraordinary profit in the first half of 1991, mainly
from restructuring charges on Thomson-CSF reducing capacity in line with the
fall in demand from the depressed defence industry.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

921022

