FT921-536

FT  28 MAR 92 / Finance & The Family: News in brief


CONSOLIDATED Life is offering an annual income bond guaranteed to outlive
the next government. The seven-year bond offers income of 9 per cent per
annum net (equivalent to 12 per cent gross). Minimum investment is Pounds
2,000 and maximum Pounds 100,000.
It is unusual for insurers to offer bonds over such a long period, says
Colin Jackson of Baronworth Investment Services, and the rate suggests that
actuaries expect base rates to rise. The figures for one-year bonds, have
also risen since last week, showing that a Labour government, with higher
base rates in its wake, is seen as a strong possibility.
*****
IN THE run-up to the election, several lenders are offering fixed-rate
mortgages. Equity & Law has a portable 9.95 per cent (10.9 per cent APR)
mortgage, fixed for 10 years. There is an arrangement fee of 1 per cent and
a Pounds 25 booking fee. Borrowers must take out insurance through the
lender. Only endowment and pension mortgages are available.
Cheltenham & Gloucester is offering a five-year fixed mortgage at 10.6 per
cent (11.4 per cent APR). There is an administration fee of Pounds 250.
*****
BONUS rates from life insurance companies are showing a strong downward
trend for the year following announcements from several large companies.
Scottish Amicable cut both reversionary (annual) and terminal bonuses across
its range of endowment policies. On the standard industry assumption that
policies were taken out by a 29-year-old man paying Pounds 30 per month,
10-year pay-outs are down from Pounds 8,092 to Pounds 7,331, below the 1990
levels, while 25-year pay-outs dropped from Pounds 63,270 to Pounds 62,531.
The Prudential, the UK's largest life insurer, has also cut both forms of
bonus. Its figure for a 25-year policy, on the same assumptions, is Pounds
60,075, down from Pounds 61,359. This keeps the Pru outside the top ten
performing offices.
Equitable Life, a leader in the pensions market but less active in
endowments, reported small increases in pension pay-outs. - the retirement
fund after 25 years of paying Pounds 500 annual premiums would be Pounds
120,825, compared to Pounds 118,285 last year. Pay-outs on its 10-year
endowment fell from Pounds 8,399 to Pounds 7,812, but over 25 years rose
from Pounds 51,823 to Pounds 53,444.

The Financial Times


London Page IV

920328

