FT921-644

FT  27 MAR 92 / Money Markets: Trading stays low


   By ANDREW JACK


RATES closed little changed yesterday in modest trading as uncertainty over
the UK general election result continued to haunt the market, writes Andrew
Jack.
'It is unfortunately a bit tedious at the moment,' said Mr David Cocker,
treasury adviser to Chemical Bank in London. 'The market isn't thinking of a
Conservative victory. It favours a hung parliament.'
His views seemed to be reflected in a Reuters poll among 46 economists
circulating on the news wires, which showed more than 70 per cent expected a
hung parliament.
Dealers said most trading was complete by mid-morning, with the vast
majority of the volume in very short dates no further out than one month.
The overnight rate went as high as 11-10 1/2 per cent, before closing at 10
1/4 -10 1/8 per cent, down  1/8 on the previous day. Three-month money
closed at 10 7/8 -10 3/4 per cent, holding stable with yesterday's close,
while at the long end one year money also closed unchanged at 11-10 7/8 per
cent.
The June sterling contract continued its descent, dropping by six basis
points from Wednesday's close to finish at 89.08. It opened at 89.01 and
then bounced between 89.07 and 89.18 during the day, with trading volume
standing at 28,028 by the close.
The Bank of England expected a shortage of around Pounds 400m in the
morning. This included Pounds 290m from treasury bills and maturing
assistance, Pounds 180m in bills for repurchase by the market and Pounds
100m from the rise in note circulation, offset by Pounds 205m in exchequer
transactions.
It revised its shortage to Pounds 300m at midday and did not operate.
However, in the afternoon, it came into action, buying Pounds 137m band-1
bills at 10 3/8 per cent, and Pounds 13m band-2 at 10 3/8 per cent. The Bank
provided late assistance of around Pounds 30m.
The US Federal Reserve added temporary reserves to the banking system
through four-day system repurchase agreements. Funds traded at 4- 1/16 per
cent at the time of the Fed's operation, just above the four per cent target
level. The operation addressed a small need for reserves, economists said.
German call money eased but remained close to the 9.75 per cent emergency
Lombard rate, quoted at 9.60/65 per cent after 9.65/70 on Wednesday.

The Financial Times


London Page 35

920327

