FT922-480

FT  27 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Olivetti/DEC


The fact that Olivetti has signed a strategic accord with Digital Equipment
Corporation comes as no great surprise. What is puzzling, though, is why the
US company should be prepared to pay more than two and a half times the
market price - and more than net asset value - for an 8 per cent stake in
its Italian partner.
One can only assume DEC knows what it is doing, though some may suspect a
touch of desperation about the move. The mini-computer maker has poured
millions into the development of its Alpha microprocessor technology, but is
up against stiff competition in the so called Risc market from the likes of
IBM, Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems. Olivetti offers access to
customers in the UK and Germany, as well as Italy, plus the prospect of
other product relationships which have yet to be announced. Unlike DEC it
has also concentrated on the open systems thought by most industry analysts
to be the way of the computer industry's future.
Yesterday's deal carries an irony for Olivetti's chairman Mr Carlo De
Benedetti, who was at pains to assure shareholders that alliances and
independence are not mutually contradictory. It was Mr De Benedetti, after
all, who initially adopted a friendly approach in Brussels before launching
his fierce, but ultimately unsuccessful, takeover assault on Societe
Generale de Belgique in 1988. DEC appears to have no aggressive intent, but
even allowing for the generous price placed on his shares the Olivetti
chairman must feel as though he is now firmly on the back foot.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920627

