FT923-15553

FT  01 JUL 92 / Fiat sale signals retreat fromtelecoms


   By HAIG SIMONIAN


   TURIN


FIAT, Italy's largest industrial company, has completed its retreat from
telecommunications with the sale of its remaining activities to a
Luxembourg-based company made up of a group of French banks.
Alcatel Alsthom, the French industrial group which bought most of Fiat's
telecoms activities in 1990, will have a four-year option to buy the stake
from the banks. The transaction, worth L1,100bn (Pounds 500m) will give Fiat
a L860bn capital gain this year, helping it to close 1992 with a profit
which will be 'lower but still positive', said Mr Gianni Agnelli, chairman.
Mr Agnelli gave no forecast for this year's dividend, cut by almost 40 per
cent last year. However, Fiat said industrial activities would show an
operating profit in 1992 in spite of mounting problems in the car business.
Turnover at the Fiat Auto car subsidiary in the first half of this year was
6 per cent below the corresponding period in 1991.
Yesterday's deal came as a surprise. Fiat is selling its 25 per cent stake
in the telecoms business created in 1990 from the sale of its Telettra
telecoms subsidiary to Alcatel. Under that transaction, Fiat retained a 25
per cent stake in Alcatel Italia, the company formed from the merger of
Telettra with Alcatel Face, the French group's Italian operation.
Finparcom, a Luxembourg-registered company mainly made up of French banks,
is paying L850bn for the stake. Meanwhile, Alcatel will pay Fiat around
L260bn over the next four years.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

920701

