FT924-6162

FT  23 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: UK utilities


With strong balance sheets and improving cash flows, UK utilities have very
different finances from their foreign counterparts. Gearing for the UK
regional electricity companies varies between 5 per cent and 30 per cent,
while US electricity utilities typically have gearing between 50 per cent
and 100 per cent. Interest cover is also higher in the UK than elsewhere.
BT's operating income covers its interest payments more than 11 times, that
for the US 'baby bells' only between 3 and 4 times. Comparisons with
continental firms are even more startling.
By the second half of the decade many UK utilities will have substantial net
cash and while privatised UK firms arguably face competition, they could
still run happily with higher levels of debt. The anomaly arises because the
companies were sold as though they were conventional businesses expecting to
earn reasonable returns in a competitive market. Their restructured balance
sheets reflected this, but profits have increased much faster than expected
partly because competition has evolved slowly and their capacity to cut
costs was higher than had been thought. BT's return on capital employed is
now 21.4 per cent, compared to an average 11.4 per cent for the 'baby
bells'.
Higher gearing might improve returns for shareholders, but that would depend
on what the companies did with the borrowed money. British Gas and the
electricity generators can make a case for investing in areas of expertise
such as exploration and production and power generation overseas. BT and the
regional electricity companies might consider returning the cash to
shareholders before it burns a hole in the directors' pockets.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

921123

