FT921-11917

FT  29 JAN 92 / Parliament and Politics: Wakeham wins pledge over
profitability - British Coal


   By IVOR OWEN and JULIET SYCHRAVA


BRITISH COAL has agreed with the government to speed up its withdrawal from
loss-making activities and to provide more scope for private-sector coal
production.
Mr John Wakeham, energy secretary, told the Commons last night that Mr Neil
Clarke, chairman of British Coal, had accepted that the corporation's
overall objective must be to develop a mining business that achieved
'sustainable profitability'. British Coal would work within the government's
financial framework, notably the corporation's external financing limit and
the required rate of investment return of at least 8 per cent in real terms.
Mr Wakeham's announcement will support the view that the government is
working to knock the organisation into shape for privatisation shortly after
the election.
Earlier this month Mr Clarke asked Mr Malcolm Edwards, the corporation's
commercial director and a firm supporter of a British coal industry, to
leave. The move, which was criticised by MPs, was followed by the
announcement that more than 1,000 jobs would go at four pits in West
Yorkshire.
The agreement of profit objectives is no surprise, given that the
much-publicised report on British Coal by NM Rothschild, the government's
advisers on privatisation of the company, is designed to determine which
parts of British Coal are profitable enough for sale to the public.
Making the company as profitable as possible has always been a government
objective and Mr Clarke has made clear he views this as his task.
Mr Wakeham said British Coal should also further review its policies on
licensing both deep mines and opencast operations to enable the expansion of
competitive private-sector coal production.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

920129

