FT922-7171

FT  20 MAY 92 / The Lex Column: Yorkshire Water


The joint venture between Yorkshire Water and Babcock looks a neat solution
to two long-term problems for the UK water industry. Other companies,
notably Thames and North West, have already seen the logic of developing
their engineering skills into separate operations. Their wholly-owned
ventures and Yorkshire's more elegant example mark a logical progression in
the water sector's diversification away from business regulated by Ofwat. In
contrast to earlier deals in which water companies were inveigled into the
mysteries of waste management, Yorkshire is investing in an area where its
experience is not in question.
The venture has an additional attraction. Water companies' huge investment
programmes are spread between treatment plants and underground pipes. At
present, more money is being spent on plants; by the middle of the decade,
the companies will generally be investing more in pipes. The question is
what to do with the hundreds of plant process engineers who will no longer
be needed.
Yorkshire's answer has been to bring in a specialist engineering partner at
once. The joint venture is unlikely to make much money for a year or two.
But by the time Yorkshire would otherwise be expensively laying off staff,
they should instead be making profits selling services and project skills in
the UK and abroad. As for Babcock, the deal represents a timely return to a
business which FKI sold off to Biwater four years ago. Doubtless other
engineering groups will try to follow suit.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920520

