FT921-15392

FT  10 JAN 92 / Doctors sniff at 'flu epidemic warnings


   By JIMMY BURNS


DOCTORS reacted angrily yesterday to reports that Britain could be on the
brink of a 'flu epidemic which could severely hit companies already
suffering from a recession, writes Jimmy Burns.
The Royal College of General Practitioners, the medical body which monitors
'flu cases in England and Wales, said that there was 'no evidence' that the
country was on the brink of an epidemic.
One of the bodies warning of a serious outbreak - the Influenza Monitoring
and Information Bureau - is a public relations business funded by four drugs
companies: Evans Medical (a subsidiary of Medeva), Duphar UK, Merieux and
Servier.
Responding to reports that the 'killer' virus was heading for London, Mr
Richard Kenyon, the bureau's spokesman, said some reports had distorted its
remarks. But he insisted there was little chance of the capital escaping the
outbreak.
Medeva's shares rose by 6p to 239p on the London Stock Exchange yesterday.
Shares in other big pharmaceutical companies rose by between 3 and 4 per
cent. The rises are largely due to a general demand for drugs stocks but
reports of a 'flu epidemic have given dealers an additional reason to mark
up prices.
Figures to be published today by the Royal College will show an increase in
'flu cases, but well below the level at which health experts begin to become
concerned.
The CBI appeared unimpressed by suggestions that the A-Beijing 'flu virus
could soon bring London to a halt. An official said: 'I'm not aware of it,
in this building at least, and no member has failed to turn up because of
it.'

The Financial Times


London Page 1

920110

