FT923-10943

FT  28 JUL 92 / The Lex Column: UK market


The really depressing thing about yesterday's fall in UK equities is that it
happened in isolation. In the previous week or so, London had responded
along with other European bourses to anxiety about German interest rates.
But yesterday continental equities went up, sterling opened stronger against
the D-Mark and UK money market rates fell back. In addition, the Bank of
Japan did its best by cutting the discount rate. The Wellcome issue was at
least a qualified success and Wall Street opened higher. The FT-SE duly lost
29 points on the day.
The only rational explanation is that investors have become terminally
gloomy about the UK corporate sector itself. Of the 100 stocks in the FT-SE,
17 now yield over 8 per cent, a level at which the security of the payment
is being seriously questioned. The list covers oil, steel, food, building
materials, aerospace, hotels, shipping, retailing, banking and insurance.
All the companies involved are by definition big and relatively successful.
There are, for example, no construction companies on the list. This is
because there are no construction companies left in the FT-SE.
Today's quarterly survey from the Confederation of British Industry will
scarcely lighten the mood. Then again, there is no obvious reason why it
should worsen it. Not only was the survey heavily trailed over the weekend.
It also appears only to repeat what the market knew already - that
manufacturing industry, like the rest of the economy, has quite abandoned
its fit of cheerfulness at the time of the election. The market now faces
another hurdle in the form of the results season, starting this week with
the banks and ICI. If the news is not in the price already, it must be bad
indeed.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920728

