FT921-12035

FT  29 JAN 92 / The Lex Column: The CBI piles on the agony


FT-SE Index: 2,552.0 (+12.1)
It begins to look as if only optimists believe in a double-dip recession in
the UK. The term, after all, implies some attempt at recovery which
subsequently falters. There is not much sign even of that in yesterday's
Confederation of British Industry survey. The overall picture is one of
continuing decline, if at a slower level than a year ago. Particularly
worrying is the way in which many of the forward-looking indicators -
expectations for stocks, capital spending, export orders and output - have
deteriorated since the last survey in October. The only crumb of comfort is
the small majority of respondents still expecting an increase in domestic
orders.
But the climate of electoral and exchange rate uncertainty in early January,
when the poll was taken, means the results are more than usually likely to
reflect short-term mood rather than medium-term trend. This is particularly
true of the basic measure of business confidence, normally a reliable
indicator of economic activity six to nine months out.
Taken literally, yesterday's result suggests output could still be falling
at the end of the third quarter. But if that were in prospect, the stock
market ought now to be in full retreat. Instead, its slide in the last four
months of 1991 seems to have discounted merely an extension of the downturn
into this year's first half. Its modest rally since seems to be signalling a
weak second half recovery. It may be painting a more accurate picture than
the CBI.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920129

