FT922-4201

FT  06 JUN 92 / How To Spend It: Who Dares wins


   By LUCIA VAN DER POST


IT HAD to come. Now that cotton is chic, that simple weaves and checks and
stripes are what the furnishing mood is all about, a shop devoted to nothing
but sturdy, honest, cotton fabrics could not be far away.
Thomas Dare opened last week at 341 Kings Road, London SW3 5ES (tel:
071-351-7991) with a splendid Sasha Waddell-designed interior filled with
bolts of 100 per cent cotton furnishing fabrics, all grouped in colour
'families' with not an overblown rose, a cherub or delicate garland in
sight.
The collection was designed in New England by the Daphne Tyson Company, but
the fabrics are woven, to an evidently very high standard, in India. For the
home decorator what the shop offers is well-priced fabrics (which these days
means prices between Pounds 13.95 and Pounds 20.95 a metre) and a vast
choice of colour-linked fabrics.
Every plain cotton rep will have a selection of checks and plaids of all
sizes, stripes and spots, which all work together. There is a also large
collection of furnishing trimmings - everything from twisted two-colour
ropes to tassels, ties braids and trims, all of which tie in with the
fabrics. Getting a colour-scheme together could hardly be made easier.
Colours range from dark and sombre browns and maroons, through pale neutrals
and on to the zingy primaries and pretty pastels. The collection may sound
simple and artless, based as it is on nothing but cotton, but many of the
colours and the colour combinations give plenty of scope for considerable
sophistication.
The fabrics are displayed in a range of Sasha Waddell's furniture - linen
presses, tallboys, sofas (photographed above), chairs and the like. and
Although examples in the shop are part of the fixtures and fittings any of
the pieces can be ordered.

The Financial Times


London Page XV

920606

