FT921-3889

FT  12 MAR 92 / UK Company News: T&N declines by 30% to Pounds 49.1m -
Dividend maintained / 1,500 more jobs expected to go this year


   By JOHN GRIFFITHS and JANE FULLER


T&N, the motor components and engineering group, yesterday emerged as yet
another casualty of the recession in key world vehicle markets. Pre-tax
profits for 1991 fell 30 per cent from Pounds 70.5m to Pounds 49.1m.
Mr Colin Hope, the chairman and chief executive, could discern no signs of
market recovery and he warned of another 1,500 job losses this year on top
of 3,000 - 7 per cent of the workforce - last year and a total of 5,000
since 1990.
Despite this gloomy scenario, the group surprised many City analysts by
maintaining its final 7.25p dividend, making an unchanged total of 10.85p.
Largely as a consequence its shares last night closed up 5p at 124 1/2 p.
The decision meant that the dividend was left uncovered by earnings per
share of 4.98p (15.01p). A little more than Pounds 36m was needed from
reserves to pay for it. However, last year's Pounds 119m rights issue
strengthened the balance sheet with gearing reduced from 49 to 31 per cent.
Mr Hope said that the decision to maintain the dividend was justified by the
group's strong strategic position and potential for recovery once markets
started to improve.
It was already benefiting from cost cutting and efficiency measures, as well
as increased penetration of some key automotive markets. Capital spending
had been virtually maintained at Pounds 86m (Pounds 89m), while research and
development spending had been increased to sharpen international
competitiveness.
Turnover was up by Pounds 110m to Pounds 1.36bn, reflecting the 1990
acquisition of JPI in the US. In comparable terms, sales volume was down by
6 per cent. Operating profit fell by 16 per cent to Pounds 89.7m.
The UK continued to provide the group's main source of profitability, Pounds
33.5m (Pounds 54.1m) at the operating level. Turnover in continental Europe
and North America rose to Pounds 339m (Pounds 326m) and Pounds 318m (Pounds
195m) respectively, compared with Pounds 534m (Pounds 563m) for the UK.
Zimbabwe showed a 42 per cent increase in operating profit, helped by a
decline in its currency against the US dollar in which most of T&N's sales
were made.
There was an extraordinary charge of Pounds 9m (Pounds 3.5m) for losses on
the disposal of non-core businesses. Provisions for claims related to its
former asbestos activities amounted to Pounds 15.7m, up from Pounds 11.4m.
COMMENT
Mr Hope is making a virtue of necessity in saying that T&N has been a yield
stock during its six-year transition from building materials to auto
engineering. The share price has run down from a peak of 308p in July 1987
to a third of that early this year. Meanwhile the shareholders have stumped
up for four rights issues. If a company has a really good investment story
to tell, it should not need to keep them sweet through the dividend. To be
fair to T&N, the strategy was bound to be expensive and long-winded because
of the historic baggage, including the annual asbestosis drain. It now has
plenty of modernised capacity ready to take advantage of any upturn and able
to make a better profit even in flat markets. Pre-tax forecasts from Pounds
60m to Pounds 70m give a prospective p/e of 17. The big question revolves
around the dividend, uncovered for a second year. Doubts about its
maintenance and about the speed of recovery will probably knock the share
price down a step after the ex-dividend date on April 27.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920312

