FT922-547

FT  26 JUN 92 / International Company News: Moderate recovery forecast in US
advertising spending


   By ALAN FRIEDMAN


   NEW YORK


A MODERATE recovery in the level of spending on advertising in the US print
and electronic media is being forecast by Veronis, Suhler & Associates, the
New York investment bank which specialises in the media and entertainment
sectors.
In its annual report on the US communications industry, the bank says that
while the weakness of the US economy will continue to limit advertising
spending this year, an improvement is expected to begin in 1993.
The report projects a 7.1 per cent compound growth rate in spending on US
advertising between now and 1996, which compares with a rate of just 3.4 per
cent in the period between 1986 and 1991. That would boost annual
advertising spending in the newspaper, magazine, broadcast and cable
television, radio and other media to Dollars 112.6bn in 1996, from Dollars
80.1bn last year.
The main beneficiary of this recovery should be the US newspaper industry,
the report says. Advertising in daily newspapers is forecast to grow from
Dollars 30.4bn in 1991 to Dollars 43.3bn by 1996, a 7.3 per cent annual
growth rate. This would be about three times the 2.4 per cent increase of
the past five years.
Mr John Suhler, a partner in the bank, said the study found that the rise in
US advertising expenditure had exceeded the rate of economic growth over
much of the past 20 years. But since 1988 the effect of corporate
restructuring and the woes of the retail sector had slowed the rate of
increase in the two biggest advertising areas - newspapers and local
television.
This trend, which resulted in a 4.2 per cent fall in 1991 advertising
spending, was accelerated by the US recession.
'Advertising and the consumer mentality have been in a negative environment
for most of the last five years. Our assumption going forward to 1996 is
that advertising will recover, but will lag economic growth,' Mr Suhler
said.
The Veronis, Suhler study also concluded that between now and 1996 there
would be a slight slowing in the growth rate of US consumer spending on
entertainment products such as filmed entertainment, cable television
services, home video cassette sales and rentals, recorded music and books.
While the compound consumer spending growth rate was 9 per cent between 1986
and 1991 after of the introduction of new technologies and services that
fuelled demand, the maturing of these markets pointed to a reduced growth
rate of 7.1 per cent between now and 1996.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

920626

