FT924-11490

FT  26 OCT 92 / Sex bias found in work appraisals


   By LISA WOOD, Labour Staff


POORLY designed per-formance appraisals can lead to sexual discrimination in
pay and promotion, according to a report funded by the Equal Opportunities
Commission.
The report, by the Institute of Manpower Studies, examined merit pay and
appraisal systems in a local authority, a finance company, a manufacturer
and a caterer.
Some of the schemes more than others unintentionally discriminated against
women. The IMS recommended that companies regularly monitor the allocation
of merit pay increases by sex, ethnic group, job level and length of
service.
In the finance company, the report said, male managers valued attributes
such as dynamism, assertiveness, motivation and ambition among the qualities
they sought in subordinates. Female managers valued flexibility,
perceptiveness and honesty. The report said such perceptions might influence
the opportunities open to women at a company with a male-dominated
management.
Women, the report said, tended to underestimate their skill levels. That
might mean they lost out in appraisals.
Findings also suggested that men at similar job levels and appraisal ratings
as women were more likely to be offered training and promotion.
Commenting more generally, the report said some schemes set performance
targets that were subjective and so open to discretionary judgment by
managers. Qualitative measures - such as awareness of client needs - were
more open to subjective judgments than quantitative measures such as sales
targets.
Merit Pay, Performance Appraisal and Attitudes. IMS, University of Sussex,
Falmer, Brighton BN1 9RF. Pounds 24.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

921026

