FT923-9801

FT  03 AUG 92 / Foreign Exchanges and Money Markets: Focus on Europe


   By JAMES BLITZ


TWO events this week will help to persuade dealers whether the tensions in
Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism are about to grow, writes James Blitz.
The first is the Bundesbank Council Meeting on Thursday. Only a few analysts
think the German central bank could raise the all-important Lombard rate
this time. The German discount rate was raised three weeks ago, and the
Bundesbank will need more time to see what impact this has had on M3 money
supply. Analysts were also comforted by comments last week from Mr Helmut
Schlesinger, the Bundesbank President, that the Germans are concerned about
the impact that their policies are having on other European countries. A
Lombard rate rise would turn the calls for an EMS realignment in the UK and
Italy into a deafening clamour.
The markets will also look carefully at the latest opinion poll on the
French referendum on the Maastricht treaty, to be held on September 20. In
the last poll, held on July 1, 37 per cent said that they would vote Yes to
Maastricht and 23 per cent said that they would vote No. However, the market
is expecting a considerable increase in the anti-Maastricht vote this time
in a poll which should be published on Wednesday in the weekly, Paris Match.
Tensions inside the ERM could relax if the dollar manages to break out of
its tight ranges against the D-Mark. Analysts believe that the dollar could
challenge DM1.50 if the National Association of Purchasing Managers index
shows a rise today. The big indicator of the week will be the non-farm
payroll figure for July, with the market expecting a rise of 109,000.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

920803

