FT921-552

FT  28 MAR 92 / The Lex Column: Heron


Just when banks thought they might have seen the last of the large problem
borrowers, two more have popped out of the woodwork. Even though its worries
revolve around London's Canary Wharf, Olympia & York is more a problem for
Canadian and US lenders. Heron International's difficulties strike closer to
home, which explains why shares in Barclays shed nearly 4 per cent
yesterday. Signs are Heron will also be a particularly difficult case for
its bankers.
The company is at pains to stress that it has ample liquidity. But the
proceeds of recent disposals, including both service stations and Spanish
property, should more than cover interest on the group's Pounds 1.3bn debt.
So its restructuring request implies a distinctly gloomy view of the ability
of its recession-bound UK property, home-building and car sales divisions to
generate enough cash to stem the outflow from its loss-making US interests.
Finding a solution will be all the harder because it requires the
co-operation of investors in Heron's Pounds 350m-worth of Swiss franc bonds.
Bank lenders to Brent Walker know how difficult it is to enlist the
collaboration of bond investors in a rescheduling. Swiss bond investors
require anonymity and rarely display much social conscience in debt
work-outs. Their market is thus a particularly tough nut to crack, as
borrowers like Costa Rica and the Bond Corporation have already found. On
top of that comes the need to unravel a plethora of interest rate and
currency swaps. The rescheduling is likely to take the sort of time which
Heron and its bankers can ill afford.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920328

