FT924-944

FT  21 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: Japan


Kleinwort Benson's poll of institutions attending its investment seminar
last week revealed a curious optimism about the prospects for Japanese
equities next year. The average expectation was that the Nikkei would rise
to nearly 19,400 for a return of some 12 per cent, well above the poll's
anticipated result for the FT-SE, Dow or the German DAX. That seems
inconsistent with the bleak economic outlook. The Economic Planning Agency
last week reduced its growth forecast for the current fiscal year to 1.6 per
cent from 3.5 per cent. It hopes for growth of 3.3 per cent in fiscal
1993-94, but admits this is more of a target than a forecast. The OECD
expects 2.3 per cent for calendar 1993, but says informally that even this
figure may be too high.
As Kleinwort itself points out, asset deflation will continue to restrain
growth for some time, while the corporate sector still has to come to terms
with the excesses of the 1980s. Since redundancies are hard to impose,
Companies will have to engage in savage cost reduction. Weak private
consumption may then compound Japan's economic problems.
One palliative would be aggressive cuts in interest rates. Foreigners have a
poor record at calling the Nikkei, but that prospect might justify the
survey's optimism. Indeed, a similar argument could apply to some
continental European markets. The US last year and the UK this year both
provide examples of markets which have risen primarily on the back of
interest cuts. The more difficult question comes later when the cuts have
been absorbed. Then further advance depends on earnings growth in a weak
recovery.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

921221

