FT923-6431

FT  25 AUG 92 / Venezuela goes for austerity


   By JOSEPH MANN


   CARACAS


VENEZUELA'S President Carlos Andres Perez has announced measures designed to
cut government spending, encourage more private investment in industry and
speed government asset sales.
The measures, unveiled just before congress begins debating bills on
financial reform, new taxes, and the central government's 1993 budget, were
meant to show the administration is serious about curbing spending. It is
facing a fiscal deficit this year forecast at 5 per cent of GDP or higher,
which is helping to keep Venezuela's inflation unacceptably high. The
government is trying to cut inflation from its 1991 level of about 30 per
cent.
Proposals include a freeze on federal government hiring, and reorganisation
of the agriculture ministry aimed at cutting 29,000 jobs by next year. No
new public works will be started during his present term, ending in February
1994, Mr Perez said.
The national oil company PDVSA will be asked to cut operating and personnel
expenses in 1993 by Dollars 373m (Pounds 195m), and the armed forces told
not to buy new weapons systems. The state-owned petrochemical producer
Pequiven will no longer invest in new projects, and should carry out the
rest of its current Dollars 7.6bn investment programme with private investor
support.
Pequiven should 'open itself to private capital' and sell shares on
international stock markets, the president added. He urged a speed-up in
privatisation; Alcasa, a government aluminium producer, and two parts of the
state steelworks Sidor, would be privatised.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

920825

