FT921-14137

FT  17 JAN 92 / International Company News: Safra group net earnings advance
18% to Dollars 85.4m


   By IAN RODGER


   ZURICH


GROUP net earnings of Safra Republic Holdings, the holding company for the
European private banking group headed by Mr Edmond Safra, jumped 18 per cent
last year to Dollars 84.5m, or Dollars 4.75 per share.
The group said net interest income rose 19 per cent to Dollars 149.8m due to
improved margins and growth in interest-earning assets. Foreign exchange
revenues and commission income also advanced.
Total assets at December 31 were Dollars 9.1bn, compared with Dollars 8.2bn
a year earlier. Client deposits rose to Dollars 6.1bn from Dollars 5.7bn and
client portfolio assets jumped to Dollars 2.2bn from Dollars 1.5bn. The
group operates banks active in international private and commercial banking
under the Republic National name in Geneva, Luxembourg, France, Guernsey and
Gibraltar.
Provisions for loan losses more than doubled to Dollars 19m from Dollars
7.7m in the previous year. Loans represent 14.5 per cent of total assets,
with the remainder invested primarily in deposits with leading international
banks and highly rated bonds. Non-performing loans were Dollars 15.3m at the
year-end.
Book value per share stood at Dollars 61.77 at December 31, compared with
Dollars 58.44 a year earlier. Shareholders' equity rose to Dollars 1.09bn
from Dollars 1.04bn, with approximately Dollars 10m of the increase arising
from the currency gain on the increase in the value of the company's Swiss
franc net investment in Republic National Bank of New York (Suisse).

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920117

