FT921-14389

FT  16 JAN 92 / Commodities and Agriculture: Brussel blow for dairy hormone


   By DAVID GARDNER


   BRUSSELS


THE EUROPEAN Commission yesterday agreed a report on Bovine Somatotrophin
(BST) that brought to the forefront its concerns that the growth hormone
would run counter to its efforts to reduce farm output.
The interim report follows last month's endorsement by the council of
ministers of a further, two-year moratorium on licensing the hormone, which
boosts the output of dairy cows by between 12 and 25 per cent, according to
different studies.
The report and the council decision together amount to 'a clear signal that
chemically based production improvements are not likely to be a feature of
the future', a commission official said. This is a blow to Monsanto and Eli
Lilly, the two companies seeking authorisation for hormones they have
developed, which some analysts believe could create a Dollars 1bn market
worldwide.
The commission report accepts that BST has no discernible effect on humans
who consume milk and dairy products from cows treated with it. The hormone
meets 'quality' and 'efficacy' criteria as well, though there is an animal
welfare consideration because the need to inject it daily causes swelling
and mastitis.
But the report notes that 'a veterinary medicinal product may not be
authorised. . . if its use would contravene the rules and objectives laid
down by the community within the framework of the common agricultural
policy'.
Plans to overhaul the CAP envisage sharp price and output cuts, to deal with
overproduction, which in the dairy sector is running at 15 per cent, despite
the use of ever more restrictive quotas. Widespread use of growth hormones
would drive a coach and horses through this strategy.

The Financial Times


London Page 32

920116

