FT921-3799

FT  12 MAR 92 / Nuclear Electric cuts prices further for industrial
consumers


   By JULIET SYCHRAVA


NUCLEAR ELECTRIC, the state-owned company that operates the English and
Welsh nuclear power stations, is offering cut-price electricity to
industrial consumers signing 12-month contracts before Monday.
The offer of power at 2.3p per unit plus an adjustment for inflation, 5 per
cent below the previous price of 2.425p, follows a warning this week by
Offer, the electricity industry watchdog, that it would monitor Nuclear
Electric after customers accused the company of withholding power to force
up the price.
Nuclear Electric cut its prices by just over 1 per cent and then a further 3
per cent earlier this month when Mr John Wakeham, the energy secretary, was
understood to have been concerned about its influence on the market.
Although National Power and PowerGen, the privatised electricity generators,
are bigger than Nuclear Electric, contracts put into place at privatisation
mean they have to sell most of their power to domestic consumers until March
31 next year. This has left Nuclear Electric dominating the industrial
market and setting a benchmark power price.
But Nuclear Electric said its latest price-cuts decision was purely
commercial. 'We have always challenged the view that we were squeezing the
market,' said Mr Gerald Cavalier, the company's marketing and sales manager.
'We are committed to act commercially, despite having one big shareholder.'
He said the latest price would not satisfy the large industrial customers
which received government subsidies before privatisation, and want prices of
1.9p to 2.2p.
Nuclear Electric is unlikely to sell much power at the latest price - the
cut comes too late for many consumers whose contracts came up for renewal
last week.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

920312

