FT921-12033

FT  29 JAN 92 / The Lex Column: UK accounting


There is something impressive about the bluntness with which the new
accounting standards regime is going about its business. Companies which are
found to have breached accounting standards will all be named whether or not
they repent, as Williams and Ultramar have done. Judging by the 4 per cent
fall in Williams's share price, the threat has teeth. There is no question
of Williams having tried to disguise its treatment of exceptionals, which is
made explicit on the face of the profit and loss account itself. But it
seems to have come as news to the market that the treatment was in breach of
the 1985 Companies Act.
It evidently came as news to Williams's auditors as well. Perhaps the review
panel should go further and name the auditors in each case, saying whether
the accounts were qualified for the breach in question (as they were in
Ultramar's case). That might prove embarrassing in one further respect. Only
three audit firms are represented on the review panel itself: two of them -
Pannell Kerr Forster and Ernst & Young - were Williams's and Ultramar's
auditors respectively.
The toughness of the new regime was confirmed in another case yesterday.
Electron House, a distributor of electrical components, has sold a business
which it had previously acquired, writing off goodwill in the process. The
new rules say it has to measure the sale price against the original purchase
price, thus producing a Pounds 1m loss for a company which makes only Pounds
1m pre-tax. This year it can treat the loss as extraordinary. Shortly, such
a loss will have to be taken off earnings, which in Electron's case would
mean no earnings at all.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920129

