FT923-9660

FT  04 AUG 92 / International Company News: Continental faces fresh legal
move by Pirelli


   By DAVID WALLER


   FRANKFURT


HOSTILITIES between Continental and Pirelli, two big European tyre
companies, flared up again yesterday as Pirelli launched legal action
designed to nullify the outcome of the Continental's annual meeting in
Hanover last month.
At this meeting, Pirelli was outmanoeuvred for the second year in a row in
its attempt to overturn voting restrictions at the German company. Mr Ulrich
Weiss, chairman of Continental's supervisory board and a director of
Deutsche Bank, then simply declared that Pirelli was not entitled to vote
its full holding.
Pirelli, which owns 5 per cent of Continental directly and has options over
a further 34 per cent, is maintaining it should have been able to vote the
entire stake. Had this been the case, it argued yesterday, voting
restrictions would have been overturned and the meeting would not have
granted approval to Continental's management, as is required under German
corporate law.
The legal challenge was not unexpected. At the meeting last month, Mr Gert
Silber-Bonz, chairman of Pirelli's German operations, delivered a furious
denunciation of Mr Weiss's tactics and said Pirelli would challenge the
outcome of the meeting in the courts.
Pirelli said yesterday that Continental had been wrong to say that the
shares held under option by Pirelli and Mediobanca, its banking associate,
should be aggregated with Pirelli's direct share stake for the purposes of
voting right restrictions. 'The call options were normal call options,' the
Italian company said yesterday. 'It has never been maintained by any
authority on German law that call options are a basis for aggregation.
Therefore all votes at the general meeting should have been counted.'

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920804

