FT921-3893

FT  12 MAR 92 / UK Company News: Willis held to Pounds 96.1m by soft US
market


   By RICHARD LAPPER


CONTINUING SOFTNESS in the US insurance market pegged back profits growth at
Willis Corroon, the international insurance broker.
Yesterday it posted pre-tax profits of Pounds 96.1m (Pounds 81.7m) for 1991,
its first full year since the merger in October 1990 of Willis Faber of the
UK and Corroon & Black of the US, but earnings per share fell to 15.8p
(18.9p).
Operating revenues grew by 7 per cent in underlying terms to Pounds 653.6m,
while operating expenses rose to Pounds 525.6m, an underlying growth of 4
per cent, after taking into account the cost of a series of European
acquisitions which were funded from current revenues.
Willis was also hit by a weakening in the US dollar, based on an average
rate (after hedging) of Pounds 1 equalling Dollars 1.67 (Dollars 1.63 in
1991).
Lower interest rates helped reduce interest and investment income to Pounds
68.3m (Pounds 75.2m). Underwriting claims fell to Pounds 33m (Pounds 49.2m),
leaving operating profits of Pounds 95m (Pounds 83m). Pre-tax profits were
struck after the share of profits from associated undertakings of Pounds 5m
(Pounds 5.1m) and interest payable of Pounds 3.9m (Pounds 6.4m).
Distributable profits were reduced by an extraordinary item of Pounds 7.8m,
less than the market had feared despite the establishment of a hefty Pounds
55m, or Pounds 37.1m after tax, provision to pay for liabilities left by the
non-marine business of Sovereign, the London market underwriting subsidiary
which Willis has been unable to dispose of completely.
The provision, which is needed to pay for long-tail liability claims and
run-off spiral reinsurance business, is worse than feared but its impact has
been offset by the release of a Pounds 29.3m tax provision made after the
disposal in 1989 of its interest in Morgan Grenfell, the merchant bank, and
proceeds from the sale of a 20 per cent stake in a Canadian subsidiary.
COMMENT
The fortunes of Willis Corroon, like those of Sedgwick, its main UK rival,
are heavily influenced by the state of the US insurance market, which
accounts for more than 50 per cent of the company's income. Outside some
specialist areas, such as energy and directors' and officers' liability,
premium rates remain depressed. Certainly no upturn is expected this year,
which, overall, Mr Roger Elliott, chairman, expects to be just as tough as
1991. Pre-tax profits this year of Pounds 100m - which would involve no rise
in real terms - would give earnings per share of about 16p, placing the
shares on a prospective multiple of 15.5 at yesterday's closing price of
247p. That might seem a touch expensive, but it is a little lower than last
year's average for the sector. And, unless the US market remains
semi-permanently depressed, Willis must be considered a good bet for the
long term.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920312

