FT921-15300

FT  10 JAN 92 / International Capital Markets: Date set for UK's Ecu T-bill
issue


   By TRACY CORRIGAN


THE FIRST auction of three-year Ecu Treasury notes issued by the UK
government has been set for January 21, the Bank of England said yesterday.
The programme, designed to fill a gap in the range of maturities available
in the Ecu bond market, was announced by Mr Norman Lamont, the UK
chancellor, at the Mansion House dinner last autumn.
The Bank will initially tender Ecu1bn of notes due January 1995, and
subsequent auctions will be held on the third Tuesday of every quarter.
Notes at the next two or three auctions are likely to be due January 1995,
to build up maximum liquidity. The amount issued at future auctions will
probably be around Ecu500m, although the Bank has no target. The programme
is not for funding purposes: proceeds will be held as foreign exchange
reserves.
Thirty banks have been appointed as market-makers. The Bank of England will
hold a further Ecu100m of notes that can be lent to the market-makers. This
allows them to borrow notes to cover any short positions, thus encouraging
active trading.
In brisk, when-issued trading yesterday, the notes were well bid at a yield
of 8.58 per cent, around 50 basis points below the three-year swap level.
The programme is seen as a natural extension of the Bank of England's
previous efforts to further the development of Ecu markets in London. Its
Ecu T-bill programme currently has Ecu3.6bn outstanding, and its 10-year Ecu
bond issue is one of the most actively traded in the market. A further bond
issue seems unlikely, however, since there is no longer a lack of paper at
that area of the yield curve.

The Financial Times


London Page 19

920110

