FT921-3759

FT  12 MAR 92 / The Lex Column: Gilts


Not so long ago, the gilts market was unruffled by the prospect of a sharply
increasing PSBR. The perceived wisdom was that with sterling in the ERM,
gilts were attractive to a broad base of European investors. Declining
inflation meant higher real yields. Capital gains were in prospect as UK
yields converged with those of Germany. So was the market over-doing things
in driving prices down by up to  3/4 of a point yesterday?
The answer depends on the time horizon. Strip away the election and much of
the original argument holds true. A borrowing requirement which in relative
terms is still lower than that of Germany should be absorbed without too
much impact on yields. Foreign investors may, however, need a stronger lead
from domestic investors. They will have to be prised away from equities. As
a result, gilt yields might fall marginally less fast in response to
declining inflation. The government will also need to resume funding in the
very long 25-to-30-year range where yields have been artificially depressed
by shortage of supply.
So far, so good. But election uncertainty in the short run has thrown up the
fear that an incoming government may yet succumb to the temptation to
devalue, rekindling inflationary worries and destroying long-term confidence
in gilts. Particularly vulnerable to panic selling during the next four
weeks is 10-year paper, in which overseas investors are most heavily
invested. Pronounced weakness could make gilts a bargain, but only for
investors who believe there will be no devaluation, even by a minority
government.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920312

