FT923-9664

FT  04 AUG 92 / International Company News: Foreign banks to press Rome on
Efim's debt


   By HAIG SIMONIAN


   MILAN


REPRESENTATIVES of foreign bank creditors to Efim, the Italian state holding
company put into voluntary liquidation last month, will make four demands at
a meeting with the Treasury and the company's administrator due in Rome
tomorrow.
The delegation, which is likely to include executives from London-based
banks, will press Treasury officials to clarify a number of points which
remain obscure after last month's government decree liquidating the company.
Foremost will be to glean whether the government's plan to issue up to
L4,000bn (Dollars 3.48bn) in new securities from next January to cover the
company's debts will be adequate. No details have been released as to how
the L4,000bn figure has been calculated, and foreign bankers will want
reassurance that the figure is enough and, if necessary, can be increased.
Foreign banks are believed to have lent around L3,500bn to the Efim group,
which has indebtedness of around L8,500bn.
Bankers will also be pressing for details on the nature of the new bonds to
be issued next year. So far, the Treasury has given no indication of the
maturity of the new instruments, nor of the interest rate they will carry.
Bankers will also want to discover whether the Treasury plans to issue any
of the new bonds in currencies other than the lira. The Efim group, which
borrowed heavily in the international markets, had exposures in a variety of
currencies, and bank creditors are keen that the new bonds should as far as
possible reflect its borrowing profile.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920804

