FT924-11446

FT  26 OCT 92 / The Lex Column: UK food retailers


It seems matters are coming to a head in the beleaguered middle ground of UK
supermarkets. Trading conditions in the overall market seem to have
deteriorated. And there are signs that the long and sorry story of the
Gateway buy-out is reaching its climax. Mr Bob Willett, Gateway's chief
executive and architect of the company's trading strategy, left the company
last week. That may be a signal that the backers of the buy-out vehicle
Isosceles have lost whatever faith they had left in the company's ability to
trade its way from negative net worth to flotation.
However, if the bankers do want to crystalise any loss, their options are
limited. The big three superstore groups, Sainsbury, Safeway and Tesco are
unlikely to be interested in much, if any, of Gateway's store portfolio. The
smaller fry, Asda and Budgens, are in no position to buy. Among the
discounters Kwik Save might be interested in some stores at bargain basement
prices, but Aldi may not. Many of Gateway's sites are in less than perfect
locations. Unless planning permission becomes harder to obtain, other groups
may prefer to expand by developing new sites with better amenities.
Asda, the other mid-market operator which has been savaged by both the
downmarket discounters and upmarket superstores, is in better shape. It at
least has a new management, the kernel of a strategy and a coherent set of
shops. But it is still struggling to differentiate itself, and the pressure
will intensify. In the long run it may be forced to retreat to its northern
stronghold if it is to survive.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921026

