FT922-515

FT  27 JUN 92 / Letter: 'City' was never a major investor in Maxwell


   From Mr C M GILCHRIST


Sir, As the media focus on the Maxwell affair has intensified there have
been increasing calls for 'the City' to do something since 'the City'
encouraged and financed his enterprises, and ultimately failed in its
supervisory role.
But what is meant by 'the City' in this context. Normally one would be
referring to the whole gamut of institutions from banks to insurance
companies and pension funds. Normally one would expect the shareholding of a
publicly quoted company to be represented by, approximately, a third pension
funds, a third insurance companies, and a third other institutions and
private investors.
The sale of 49 per cent of Mirror Group was launched so publicly with mini
prospectuses in the Daily Mirror itself as a response to lack of
institutional interest. In the case of Maxwell Communications Corporation
much of the pension fund losses appear to have been incurred in illicit
buying which increased the Maxwell controlled shareholding to over 80 per
cent. Pension funds and insurance companies clearly did not hold their usual
weightings, or anything like them, in these companies.
The plight of pensioners caught up in this mess is a national disgrace, and
the pensions industry must play its part in ensuring that such a problem
does not recur.
But the investors in Maxwell's companies were not 'the City' as a whole, but
the banks and a few other unfortunate souls. Pension funds and other
traditional investors were, by and large, not involved. This fact should be
recognised.
Clive Gilchrist,
managing director,
Bestrustees,
Minerva House,
19-20 Garlick Hill,
London EC4V 2AL

The Financial Times


London Page 7

920627

