FT921-1404

FT  24 MAR 92 / Charities see need to improve managers


   By ALAN PIKE, Social Affairs Correspondent


MOST CHARITIES believe more professional management and marketing are needed
in the voluntary sector, the National Council for Voluntary Organisations
said yesterday.
The council published a survey in which more than half the charities
questioned listed better management as their most pressing concern.
The survey results were issued on the eve of the launch of a three-year
campaign aimed at increasing public awareness of charities. The Charities
for Change campaign, co-ordinated by the council, comes as the government
has been trying to encourage charities to take over services from the public
sector.
A trend towards greater involvement by the voluntary sector in the provision
of services is likely to continue whoever forms the next government, but
charity directors are concerned that they lack the resources to cope with
growing demands.
The campaign aims to raise Pounds 1.5m to help promote improved efficiency
and effectiveness through better training and other initiatives.
Many voluntary organisations have been affected by cuts in public funding in
the past two years.
Seventy-seven per cent of charities surveyed believed council funding would
remain static or decline in the next financial year, and 64 per cent said
the same about government funding. The survey shows that 20 per cent of
charities expect to have to reduce their services next year, while a third
believe they will be able to improve them. Constraints on public-sector
finance are making the sector increasingly active in the search for private
corporate support.
In an effort to make potential donors more aware of the importance of
Britain's voluntary sector the campaign will emphasise the scale of its
activities, point-ing out that it provides 10 per cent of all state-assisted
training.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

920324

