FT923-6500

FT  24 AUG 92 / Observer: Thirst-quenching


How well did the Daily Mirror do from its biggest scoop in a decade? The
publication of the photos of the errant Duchess comes at a time when the
long-running battle between The Sun and the Daily Mirror for the title of
Britain's biggest selling daily is at a crucial stage.
In 1991 the Daily Mirror regained the number one spot, but The Sun has been
narrowing its lead lately. Last month the Mirror raised its cover price by
2p, making it more expensive than The Sun, and the latter has been merciless
in highlighting the price differential. Referring to the Mirror's former
owner, the late Robert Maxwell, The Sun has been taunting the opposition
with jibes such as 'what the Mirror coffers lack its readers are now paying
back'. The Mirror badly needs more such scoops if it's to hold its slim
circulation lead.
Carat, which specialises in buying advertising space, did a telephone survey
last Thursday, and reports that readership of the Daily Mirror had gone up
by 29 per cent on the day; circulation may have increased by 11 per cent. A
W H Smith survey of 600 newsagents found that Mirror sales had risen 17 per
cent on Thursday and the Mirror says it has been printing an extra 400,000
copies. By contrast, The Sun printed an extra 300,000 copies.
The reason for Carat's research is that its space buyers are frequently
called by newspapers promising a big story and trying to get buyers to pay
closer to rate card rates for the advertising space. But while circulation
increases are important, increased readership levels are much harder to
gauge.
So the good news is - salaciousness sells. Come to think of it, isn't that
the bad news, too?

The Financial Times


London Page 11

920824

