FT921-15220

FT  11 JAN 92 / Finance & The Family (Briefcase): Drive a cheaper car


I AM a project manager in the civil engineering industry and I am in
correspondence with the Inland Revenue concerning the use of my own car on
company business. I bought my car for Pounds 16,000 two years ago and during
that time I have used it on company business. I understand that in the first
year in which the car is used for business purposes the writing down
allowance is 25 per cent of the cost/open market value of the car. In
subsequent years the writing down allowance was 25 per cent of the
qualifying expenditure, - ie the cost of the car less the writing down
allowance. Accordingly, I claimed Pounds 4,000 for the first year, Pounds
3,000 for the second year. The Revenue has said the maximum permissible
writing down allowance is Pounds 2,000 per annum. Is the Revenue correct or
if I should appeal?
For an 'expensive motor car', namely a car costing more than Pounds 8,000,
the annual writing-down allowance is indeed restricted to Pounds 2,000 by
section 34 of the Capital Allowances Act 1990 (reenacting the existing
legislation as amended up to 1985). Ask your tax office for the free
pamphlet IR106 (Capital allowances for vehicles and machinery).
The maintenance of the Pounds 8,000 ceiling is probably a fair indication
that the majority of MPs consider that car prices in the UK are too high.
No legal responsibility can be accepted by the Financial Times for the
answers given in these columns. All inquiries will be answered by post as
soon as possible.

The Financial Times


London Page VI

920111

