FT921-11985

FT  29 JAN 92 / Commodities and Agriculture: Argentine grain board forecasts
sharp cut in wheat crop


   By JOHN BARHAM


   BUENOS AIRES


ARGENTINA WILL see a sharp reduction in wheat production this year, but
higher world prices and better yields should improve revenues for the
country's hard-pressed farmers, according to government and private
forecasters.
The wheat crop should fall by about 16 per cent to 9.4m tonnes, according to
the latest forecasts from the government's National Grain Board. Cargill,
the US grain trader, forecasts a 24 per cent drop in the area planted with
wheat to 4.7m hectares, and expects output to fall to 9.2m tonnes.
None the less, Ms Marichela Gey, head trader at Cargill's Buenos Aires
office, said yesterday that improving yields had compensated for the decline
in the area planted. Yields had increased strongly in southern Buenos Aires
province, thanks to good weather and greater use of fertilisers while rising
yields there helped offset the impact of bad weather in other regions of the
Pampas, boosting the average national yield to 2.04 tonnes per hectare. Last
year the yield was 1.97 tonnes a hectare.
Argentina is expected to export between 4.5m and 4.7m tonnes of wheat this
year, compared with 5.2m tonnes in the first ten months of 1991, the latest
period for which official figures are available. But revenues for the whole
year should rise to about USDollars 550m, from Dollars 486m in the ten
months to October 1991. Prices last year began recovering after plunging in
1990 in response to subsidised exports from the European Community and the
US.

The Financial Times


London Page 28

920129

