FT924-6505

FT  20 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Evode


Wassall's bid for Evode emphasises that there are plenty of reasonably sound
companies trading at rock-bottom prices. With turnover in small company
shares so low, some degree of mis-pricing might be expected. Yet although it
is hard to believe that Evode was fairly valued at 58p a share before the
market caught scent of a bid, potential bidders are thin on the ground.
Lower interest rates might normally be expected to stimulate debt-funded
takeovers. But the walking wounded from the debt binge of the late 1980s -
including Evode - are a grim reminder of the consequences of paying too much
at the wrong time.
Evode could certainly use an injection of capital. Gearing at the last
balance sheet stood close to 200 per cent if the convertible preference
shares are counted as debt. The dividend has been cut and capital
expenditure pared back. The company could hardly ask shareholders for cash
by way of a rights issue without offering a human sacrifice. Little wonder
the incumbent management has avoided such a route. Disposals have helped,
but that route leaves Evode selling assets under pressure at the bottom of
the cycle. In this context, Wassall's plan to use its stratospheric multiple
to raise capital looks good sense.
Whether Wassall's opening shot is enough is another matter. On a multiple of
operating cash flow, something closer to 100p a share might be a fairer
price. Wassall might legitimately argue that 100p would be an over-generous
premium over the pre-bid price. If it walks away with Evode for much less,
the market can hardly complain.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

921120

