FT922-703

FT  26 JUN 92 / Letter: Pace-setters in public sector pay


   From Mr R RENCH


Sir, While concurring with everything else which was said, I cannot endorse
the statement in your editorial, 'Regulating the water industry' (June 22),
that 'water company chairmen and chief executives - (were) probably
underpaid when nationalised'.
Ever since they were set up in 1974 to their demise, rather than being the
Cinderellas, the water authorities were the pace-setters for executive pay
in the public sector - and no more so than in the case of those at the top.
And, if one took into account the 'perks', the differentials were even more
obvious.
Privatising the water authorities did not alter the essential nature of the
tasks to be performed. (In fact, at least 10 per cent of former duties were
transferred to the National Rivers Authority). With no competitors and a
captive market, no entrepreneurial skills whatsoever are required; the job
to be done is purely administrative. Comparisons with the lCIs and Lonrhos,
etc of this world, where 'real business' takes place, are false. The job is
certainly no more onerous, and perhaps even less, than that of running a
large local authority such as Birmingham or Manchester and, accordingly,
remuneration should be similar.
At a stretch, one might have been able to overlook the outrageous pay
increases in the water companies if, by some miracle, the previous
oft-repeated pledge that privatisation would result in consumers paying
lower charges than if the industry remained in the public sector had
materialised. But, of course, it has not. It must be the biggest 'con' to be
perpetrated on the British public since that of Horatio Bottomley of First
World War infamy. When will it learn that as far as private monopolies are
concerned, not unnaturally the interests of the consumer will always be
secondary.
Roland Rench,
8 Minshull Place,
Park Road,
Beckenham, Kent BR3 1QF

The Financial Times


London Page 17

920626

