FT922-561

FT  26 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Wellcome


You would hardly expect Wellcome's advisers to be other than brimming with
confidence at this stage. But the reality is that they face quite a struggle
to sell the 330m shares which the company's majority shareholder announced
yesterday it is provisionally planning to give up. The difference with the
GPA issue is that this one looks reasonably well anchored in London, and can
be priced against the secondary market. The similarity is that there may not
be ecstatic response on Wall Street.
That could always change with the roadshows, of course, or a reverse in
investor sentiment in the next month. But for the moment US institutions
seem tired of reading prospectuses - they have been bombarded with initial
public offerings this year - and have lost some of their earlier certainty
that pharmaceutical stocks would continue to outperform. To be fair,
Wellcome's share price has fallen from Pounds 11.25p at the time the
international offering was announced to 915p last night, while the size of
the offer has now been scaled down. But only the next few weeks will tell
whether this is enough to assuage the doubters.
Wellcome wins countless plaudits for good management, and has effected the
change from uncommercial research establishment to marketing led
multinational with considerable success. The challenge will be persuading US
investors that the R & D pipeline is sufficient to maintain strong profits
growth in the late 1990s when patents from its current world beaters will
run out.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920626

