FT922-4257

FT  06 JUN 92 / International Company News: Managers buy camera subsidiary
of Leica


   By CHRISTOPHER PARKES


   BONN


LEICA'S camera subsidiary, arguably the most famous of the few remaining
camera makers outside Japan, is to be sold to its management and Deutsche
Beteiligungsgesellschaft, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank.
The 78-year-old brand name will remain the property of Wild Leitz, a private
Swiss holding company, but the new owners, led by managing director Mr Bruno
Frey, will be allowed to continue to use it on cameras, lenses, enlargers
and projectors.
Sales last year were DM207m (Dollars 129.3m), or around 14 per cent of the
parent group's total turnover of DM1.6bn. Group profits after tax were
DM2.1m. Camera profits, the value of the deal and the size of the minority
stake to be retained by the former owner were not disclosed in yesterday's
announcement.
The disposal is understood to be part of a wide-ranging rationalisation plan
within the group.
The remaining business, controlled by Mr Stephan Schidheiny, who is reputed
to be one of world's richest individuals, will continue to focus on its core
interests in microscopes, sensors, measurement and environmental technology.
The camera business employs 1,500 in factories in Germany and Portugal and
in distribution subsidiaries in the UK, the US, Canada, France and
Switzerland.
Leica Camera is based in Wetzlar, where it was founded in 1914, and from
where it gained world renown as the successful developer of the 35mm camera
for amateurs.
The company formally became a subsidiary of Britain-based Leica Plc after
Wild Leitz - itself a part of Mr Schidheiny's Unotec holding group - merged
with Cambridge Instruments in 1989.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

920606

