FT924-800

FT  22 DEC 92 / Observer: Return visitor


News that the Courtaulds Textiles pension scheme was handing back part of
its huge surplus should come as no surprise to professional pension fund
watchers.
In an industry which worships the average, Courtaulds in-house pension fund
has always been the odd man out. It has prospered by not following the herd.
John Evans, the current manager, has never been to a National Association of
Pension Funds annual conference, and as he's now 58, he has no intention of
starting now.
His name does not appear in City directories and he is not as well known as
his two predecessors, Alastair Ross Goobey, who is about to run PosTel, and
Matthew Oakeshott, who left to set up Olim, his own money management firm.
However, Evans has been around longer than both of them. He first managed
Courtaulds pension money in the mid-1970s before joining Oliver Marriott -
author of The Property Boom - in the property business. He returned in 1986.
Evans plays down the difficulties in-house pension schemes have in paying
enough to recruit the best investment managers. His team can concentrate on
investing and doesn't have to waste time trying to win new clients.
But more important are his pension fund trustees whom he describes as
'challenging and sympathetic'. Whereas outside managers are ruled by
quarterly valuations, Evans is able to take a longer term and often
contrarian view. He has made money investing in unfashionable parts of the
property market when others lost their shirts. 'You have to earn this
privilege, but once earned, it can become a virtuous circle,' he says.

The Financial Times


London Page 11

921222

