FT922-4489

FT  05 JUN 92 / UK Company News: Wellcome prospectus stresses core
pharmaceutical business


   By PAUL ABRAHAMS


THE 'pink herring' prospectus published yesterday by Wellcome stressed how
senior management have concentrated on core pharmaceutical operations in
recent years. Businesses involved in animal healthcare, industrial hygiene,
human vaccines and environmental health have all been sold during the last
two years.
The company emphasised the importance of its over-the-counter (OTC)
operations, adding that the long-term growth of that business was one of the
group's strategic aims. The company was 'actively exploring the possibility
of substantial OTC joint venture arrangements.' It wanted to sell its
existing products in new markets, particularly on the continent.
The prospectus also set out how the company had adopted a more marketing-led
approach to research and development. It wasincreasingly focusing on drugs
which 'enhance the competitive standing of the company as well as promoting
human health and quality of life.' In addition, the marketing department now
had far closer ties with the research departments. The aim is to ensure
rapid and successful product launches.
The more commercial approach in sales and marketing was also highlighted in
the document, as was the increased emphasis on financial returns. The
company particularly mentioned it wanted to improve margins through
cost-savings.
The prospectus warned, however, of the increasingly difficult environment
for pharmaceuticals companies, particularly in the area of pricing. It
pointed out that France, Italy and Spain were all considering new pricing
and reimbursement bills. Meanwhile, in the US, the company spent Dollars 11m
(Pounds 6m) last year on rebates for Medicaid, the federally-funded
healthcare programme. It warned that such rebates would increase
significantly in future years.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920605

