FT923-15524

FT  01 JUL 92 / World Stock Markets (America): Dow sticks in narrow range
before jobs data


   By PATRICK HARVERSON


   NEW YORK


Wall Street
US STOCK prices failed to add to Monday's sharp improvement yesterday, the
market ending virtually unchanged amid investor nervousness awaiting
tomorrow's important employment figures, writes Patrick Harverson in New
York.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 1.34 at 3,318.52 at the close,
while the more broadly based Standard & Poor's 500 eased 0.80 to 408.14, but
the American SE composite managed to put on 2.18 to 379.28 and the Nasdaq
composite rose 4.80 to 563.60. Turnover on the New York SE amounted to 201m
shares.
The market largely ignored the day's economic news, which contained no
surprises. The Chicago Purchasing Management Association reported a modest
rise in business activity in its region, the Conference Board revealed a
slight decline in its consumer confidence index for June, and the Commerce
Department said its index of leading economic indicators was up 0.6 per cent
in May.
These figures were unimportant alongside tomorrow's employment report for
June, which the market hopes will be sufficiently weak to persuade the
Federal Reserve to cut interest rates. The Fed's policy-making Open Market
Committee was meeting yesterday to assess policy, and analysts said any
easing of monetary conditions was unlikely until after the jobs report was
released.
Among individual stocks, Digital Equipment declined Dollars  7/8 to Dollars
34 5/8 after stating that it had cut prices on its lowest end personal
computers (PCs) to match recent price reductions by its competitors. The
company also said it is considering extending the price cuts to more
expensive models.
Compaq, which lowered prices of its PCs in early June, dipped Dollars 1/2 to
Dollars 24 7/8 . IBM was down Dollars  3/4 at Dollars 97 7/8 and
Hewlett-Packard off Dollars 1 7/8 at Dollars 68 1/2 .
Boeing appreciated Dollars  7/8 to Dollars 39 7/8 in turnover of 2m shares
after analysts sounded positive noises on the aircraft maker's chances of
winning a Dollars 2.4bn jetliner order from United Airlines.
Amsouth Bancorp receded Dollars 1 to Dollars 28 3/4 on the conclusion of its
agreement to buy First Chattanooga Financial for Dollars 100m in cash and
stock. First Chattanooga, traded on the Nasdaq market, jumped Dollars 8 3/4
to Dollars 32 3/4 on the news.
Also on the Nasdaq, Software Publishing plummeted Dollars 4 to Dollars 8 3/4
in heavy trade on warning that it would only break even, or possibly report
a loss, for the upcoming fiscal third quarter.
Calgene weakened Dollars 1 1/8 to Dollars 11 1/2 after the US Patent and
Trademark Office agreed to rule on a tomato gene patent claimed by ICI
Seeds.
Canada
TORONTO finished higher after heavy trading, paced by an advance among
mining issues. The TSE 300 index gained 11.9 at 3,387.7, while rises
outscored declines by 362 to 239. Volume expanded to 32.5m shares from
20.3m.
Moore Corp dropped CDollars 2 further to CDollars 20 3/4 . The company said
the previous day that, due to weak sales in April and May, it expects
second-quarter earnings to be substantially below expectations and less than
last year's second-quarter net. Yesterday, a company official told analysts
that Moore's 1992 net income will likely not exceed the 1991 figure.

The Financial Times


London Page 43

920701

