FT924-5952

FT  24 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: GPA


It is just as well that GPA owes its banks Dollars 3bn rather than, say, a
measly Dollars 3m. Given that the company accounts for more than 10 per cent
of worldwide aircraft deliveries over the next two years, one of its trump
cards at the moment may be that it is too big to fail. Even so, while the
signs from yesterday's meeting of bank creditors in London might be
described as guardedly positive, GPA will need to muster the contacts of its
veritable cabin crew of non-executives to be sure of pulling through.
GPA aims to persuade the banks that, if they bail it out of its short term
crisis, the combination of new capital, strong underlying cash flow and
recovery in the aviation market will enable it to make the much bigger
capital repayments scheduled for 1995 and beyond. Inevitably this requires
an act of faith on the part of lenders that the adjustment of capacity to
traffic potential will be reflected in firmer leasing rates by then. To be
fair there is some evidence that the recent reduction in surplus aircraft is
having an effect. But if demand is not the worry it was, the credit quality
of GPA's airline customers certainly is.
The biggest challenge for GPA, though, could be to persuade secured lenders
that the holders of bonds and medium term notes need not make any
sacrifices. There is, of course, a perfectly logical reason for this. GPA
desperately needs the confidence and the goodwill of capital markets which
at some stage it will have to tap as a condition of the refinancing.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

921124

