FT923-6360

FT  25 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: Gilts


Yesterday's trade figures would have worried the gilts market, had it been
prepared to look beyond the fate of the pound. As it was, all eyes were
focused on the foreign exchanges, where the weakness of sterling presents a
dilemma. Judging by real yields, gilts look attractive, especially with
inflation expected to fall further; as if to underline that point, UK
institutions were buying as prices fell yesterday. But investors have to
weigh against high yields the risk of a rise in base rates and the threat of
devaluation.
Should base rates rise, prices of short maturity gilts will fall as money
market rates rise, but long-dated gilts could do well, as determination to
defend the ERM parity is made manifest. However, if sterling is allowed to
drift, fear of devaluation will depress sentiment at the longer end;
international investors will not be seduced by real yields of 5 or 6 per
cent if they believe a 10 to 15 per cent fall in sterling is around the
corner. That worry will keep gilts in check until the French referendum on
Maastricht is out of the way.
Assuming the French say 'oui', the medium-term outlook for gilts is positive
and returns over the next year or so should be good. That said, investors
may be well advised to wait  - especially as the UK public spending round
will follow hard on the heels of the French vote. If opinion polls point
towards a French 'non', the yield premium which gilts currently enjoy over
German bunds will not be enough to protect them.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920825

