FT921-1390

FT  24 MAR 92 / The Lex Column: A trade-off for shares


UK FINANCIAL markets appear increasingly confused by the election and its
impact on the economy. The glimmerings of recovery were apparent in
yesterday's trade figures. Import volumes were up sharply in February,
especially for capital goods and basic materials, while exports bounced back
from January's trough. Yet the FT-SE 100 slipped 15 points, presumably
because of worries about Labour's edge in the polls.
Sterling appeared unruffled and actually rose against the D-Mark. Perhaps
the currency held up because, having accepted the possibility of a Labour
victory or a hung parliament, the money markets are starting to discount a
rise in base rates after the election. Both Labour and the Liberal Democrats
are committed to the ERM, but higher rates, at least initially, would almost
certainly be needed to defend the parity. Yet that prospect ought to have
done much more damage to equities than the 5 per cent fall since the
election was announced. Coming on top of the shock to the economy of the
adjustment to Labour's tax changes for top wage earners, higher mortgage
rates would kill any recovery. A half-point rise would wipe out nearly all
the gains in Mr John Smith's budget for a family man on average earnings.
One possibility is that the equity market mistrusts Mr Smith's ERM
commitment and believes he would try to kick-start the economy with a large
devaluation. That would be good for shares, but only in the longer run.
Another is that it does not yet believe in a Tory defeat. Were the Tories to
win, the election bears could be trampled in the rush to buy. Not only does
the trade data add to the more positive picture of the economy painted by
last week's retail sales. At their current levels, equities would look cheap
in a politically certain world.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920324

