FT924-6342

FT  21 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Privatised debt


If the government is pleased with its auction of privatised company debt it
should tell the market why. The competition in the bidding process certainly
suggests the bonds were not sold at bargain-basement prices. In this respect
the auction could be something of an improvement over the original
privatisations. Even so, the total lack of price data makes the auction
uniquely opaque for a sale of public assets.
Given the size of the PSBR, the Treasury will probably come back for more
next year. By then covenants stopping it from offering electricity company
debt to third parties will have expired. That might encourage those
electricity companies which declined to put in a bid this time to take part.
After all, BT can hardly be pleased to see Pounds 410m of its debt passing
from the Treasury vaults into the hands of investment bankers.
In theory the government, too, might have preferred to see BT buy back all
its own debt. One can hardly imagine UBS Phillips & Drew and Goldman Sachs
bought the bonds as an investment. The risk is that the Bank of England may
face competition for its gilts auction next week as BT debt, with the same
maturity, is hawked around the City. But BT bonds are by no means a direct
substitute for gilts and the banks will repackage some of the bonds before
selling them on. With a bit of luck, most will find their way overseas. With
10-year gilt yields little more than 1 per cent higher than German bunds,
there is little immediate hope of foreign investors buying gilts.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

921121

