FT922-4400

FT  05 JUN 92 / Maastricht in the Balance: Ireland to go ahead with vote


   By TIM COONE


   DUBLIN


THE DUBLIN government remained adamant yesterday that it would press ahead
with a referendum on the Maastricht treaty on June 18, despite growing
pressure from opposition groups to postpone it, and mounting confusion over
the issue.
An unlikely alliance of environmentalists, anti-abortionists,
pro-abortionists, disarmament groups, centre-left politicians and
pro-neutrality groups have joined voices in calling for a postponement. They
say time should be given to assess the implications of any efforts to
resurrect the treaty under a different format. This could mean another
referendum would have to be held, rendering the June 18 one irrelevant, they
say.
Growing schisms in the Yes camp suggest that the result of the referendum
could now be very close instead of the expected large vote in favour.
The government's draft wording of the referendum is also likely to give
encouragement to the No and anti-referendum campaigners. It is a page of
text couched in highly legalistic terminology, which even well-informed
voters are likely to have difficulty understanding, raising concern that
many votes may be spoiled or cast mistakenly.
A government spokesman insisted yesterday, however, that a 'growing
responsibility' is now being thrust on Ireland to save the Maastricht treaty
and that an all-out effort will be made to secure a Yes vote. He said the
Danish decision 'has removed any sense of complacency about the campaign'
and added that 'if Ireland did vote No, it would be a major blow to the EC'.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

920605

