FT923-15657

FT  01 JUL 92 / International Company News: Hutchison Whampoa earnings may
suffer


   By SIMON HOLBERTON


   HONG KONG


EARNINGS at Hutchison Whampoa, the Hong Kong trading, property and shipping
conglomerate, will be hit severely this year if it succeeds in its bid to
take private its associate Cavendish International, analysts in the colony
said yesterday.
The cost to Hutchison will be HKDollars 5.8bn (USDollars 750m) if a general
meeting on July 10 approves its HKDollars 5.50-a-share offer for the 35 per
cent of Cavendish it does not already own.
One of Cavendish's main assets is a 24.5 per cent stake in Husky Oil, a
Canadian oil and gas producer. Hutchison also separately owns 24.5 per cent
of Husky.
The offer document for Cavendish shows that between the end of 1991 and
March this year the value of its interest in Husky depreciated by HKDollars
1.18bn. The combined write-down for an enlarged Hutchison would be in the
order of HKDollars 2bn, analysts said.
Last year, Hutchison absorbed write-downs to the value of Husky's oil and
gas reserves of HKDollars 760m. In the year to December 1991, Hutchison
posted profits of HKDollars 3.3bn - down more than 5 per cent on the
previous year.
Analysts are concerned that Hutchison's venture into UK telecommunications
is not providing returns as quickly as hoped. Hutchison denies both points.
Mr Philip Tose, managing director of Peregrine, the Hong Kong broker, said
that although Hutchison represented long-term value, the performance of
Husky and UK telecommunications represented a short-term risk to Hutchison's
earnings growth.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

920701

