FT924-11565

FT  24 OCT 92 / Finance and the Family: Negative equity loan plan


   By SCHEHERAZADE DANESHKHU


HOMEOWNERS with houses worth less than their mortgage may not find it easier
to obtain more money from their building society in spite of pending
legislation on unsecured lending announced this week by the government,
writes Scheherazade Daneshkhu.
The Treasury's move will lift the ceiling on building societies for
unsecured loans from Pounds 10,000 to Pounds 25,000. The government is also
easing the conditions under which mortgage customers can obtain income tax
relief if they move home. Mortgage interest relief will continue to be
claimable when a home owner moves to another property but retains the
original mortgage.
However, the Consumers' Association doubts whether borrowers will find it
easy to obtain a larger loan from their lender when legislation is passed.
'We are far from convinced that lenders will be willing to provide funds on
an unsecured basis because they will be concerned about the risk,' said a
spokesman.
Abbey National, which became a bank three years ago and has therefore been
free to lend on an unsecured basis, has not exceeded the Pounds 10,000
building society limit.
The Halifax building society was cautious about the type of customer to whom
it would be prepared to give an unsecured loan. A spokeswoman said it
depended on the individual's circumstances and their ability to repay the
loan. She suggested those wanting to move because their job involved
relocation may find it preferable to press their employer for assistance.
Even if lenders are prepared to extend an unsecured loan to customers with
negative equity, the danger for customers is that they will become caught in
a vicious circle of debt. Interest rates on unsecured loans, at an APR of
around 21 per cent, are much higher than current mortgage interest rates.

The Financial Times


London Page VI

921024

