FT922-7144

FT  20 MAY 92 / International Company News: TDK slides 20.7% at pre-tax
level


   By ROBERT THOMSON


   TOKYO


TDK, the Japanese maker of magnetic tapes, has reported a 20.7 per cent fall
in consolidated pre-tax profits, to Y54bn (Dollars 419m). Sales were flat in
Japan and down in international markets for integrated circuits and magnetic
heads.
Total sales were 0.9 per lower at Y534.87bn, with recording media sales down
4 per cent. Foreign sales slipped 2.3 per cent, and sales of electronic
materials and components were up 0.5 per cent.
Parent company pre-tax profit fell 25.4 per cent to Y33.4bn, on a 1.4 per
cent decline in sales to Y408.3bn. It was the first profit and sales fall
for six years.
Apart from the lower sales, the company blamed the poor performance on
'exchange-rate fluctuations, start-up costs for a new tape plant in
Luxembourg, and a lower fourth-quarter operational rate in order to adjust
inventory'.
Like many Japanese companies, the slowing of production was necessary after
a sharp build-up of stock with Japanese retailers.
In TDK's case, the problem was heightened when its consumer electronics
clients also reduced their inventories, cutting demand for its components.
Meanwhile, the collapse of Tokyo share prices reduced the company's
unrealised gains on long-term holdings of stocks from Y33.37bn to Y21.36bn.
For the current year, parent company sales are expected to rise 0.4 per cent
to Y410bn, with pre-tax profit up 4.7 per cent to Y35bn. Capital spending,
which was Y57.5bn last year, is forecast at about Y30bn.

The Financial Times


London Page 29

920520

