FT924-6474

FT  20 NOV 92 / Survey of Home Entertainment (3): TV grows in importance as
centre of entertainment


   By MICHIYO NAKAMOTO


WHILE the advent of HDTV is being anxiously promoted by television
manufacturers and somewhat less enthusiastically awaited by consumers, the
television set is still growing in importance as the centre of family, as
well as personal, home entertainment.
While the home video brought an element of greater choice to the TV, that
choice is being enhanced further by the availability not only of more
programmes through cable and satellite television, but of new forms of media
and entertainment such as laser disc, video games and compact disc-based
systems.
In the US, there are already moves to provide pay-per-view video directly to
consumers at home.
Bellcore, the research consortium for the regional Bell telephone companies,
for example, demonstrated earlier this month a way to provide consumers with
video-quality movies down the telephone line.
Meanwhile, TV-based consumer electronics products such as laser discs and
video games are turning the TV into a multi-media entertainment box used not
only to watch broadcast programmes but to enjoy music, video clips,
interactive games and interactive sing-along songs, also known as karaoke.
Philips has taken this one step further with the introduction of CD-I
(Compact Disc-Interactive) which combines video, photography, graphics,
data, animation and CD-quality sound on a compact disc player hooked up to
the TV.
The TV itself may be caught in a slump as a result of a lack of new ideas to
stimulate demand and the difficulties faced by both wide-screen television
and HDTV in taking off. But demand for entertainment systems using the TV as
a screen has never been greater and is likely to continue growing.

The Financial Times


London Page II

921120

