FT924-6340

FT  21 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Japan


This week's sharp rise in the Nikkei index had the feel of an orchestrated
move and was in marked contrast to yesterday's 21 per cent fall in NTT's
half-year profits. The government does not want the market to slip back
below the 16,000 level and released public savings for investment in
equities to halt the slide. In the short-term government support may keep
the market in a trading range, but longer term problems remain.
The government's supplementary budget was designed to reflate the economy
and support land prices, thus easing pressure on the financial system and
industrial companies. That package is currently bogged down in parliament
and public money will not be available to help fund the banks' bad debt
lifeboat. Some tax relief may be allowed on such debts, but with land prices
continuing to fall and regional banks under pressure as their industrial
loans start to turn sour, the financial system is still rickety.
Ironically, industrial companies may not benefit much if the emergency
package is eventually passed, because they may be tempted to avoid tackling
their underlying problems. Costs in Japanese manufacturing grew far too
quickly in the boom years. The ratio of costs to total sales increased from
76 per cent in 1979 to 88 per cent last year. That left companies vulnerable
to the slightest downturn in sales. Tackling those costs is a long term
structural problem which will take almost as long to resolve as the bank
fiasco. Companies which manage to attack their cost bases quickly stand the
best chance of outperforming.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

921121

