FT924-981

FT  21 DEC 92 / Economics: Fall tipped in British GDP


   By EMMA TUCKER


THE final figures for UK gross domestic product in the third quarter are
published today, with details on expenditure and the components of output.
GDP, including oil and gas extraction, is forecast to have fallen a further
0.7 per cent, compared with the third quarter last year - although some
economists are expecting a small increase.
Later in the week, figures for real personal disposable income may show a
small drop in the savings ratio from 10.3 per cent in the second quarter to
10 per cent in the third. However, the latest figure is unlikely to reflect
any change in spending habits after the reduction in base rates to 7 per
cent after Britain left the European exchange rate mechanism on September
16.
If lower interest rates have enticed people to save less and spend more, the
effect will probably show up in the fourth quarter figures, not due until
early next year. All markets will be closed on Friday, except in Japan,
where trading continues and a string of economic statistics is due.
Other economic events and figures published this week follow. The figures in
brackets are the median of economists' forecasts from MMS International, a
financial information company.
Today: UK GDP for third quarter (flat on quarter, down 0.7 per cent on
year); Germany, November Ifo business climate; US, November Treasury budget
(-Dollars 38.8bn); Canada, October retail sales (up 0.2 per cent); Japan,
November money supply - M2 and cash deposits (down 0.6 per cent), November
broad liquidity, December wholesale price index - first ten days.
Tomorrow: UK, November current account (Pounds 1.2bn deficit), November
visible trade (Pounds 1.3bn deficit); US, final third quarter GDP figures
(up 3.9 per cent), deflator (up 1.7 per cent), third quarter after tax
corporate profit, 1993 real capital spending, Johnson Redbook week ended
December 19, Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington; Canada,
October wholesale trade, October departmental sales (up 0.1 per cent);
Japan, October leading difference index, coincident diffusion index,
December trade balance - first 10 days; Australia, October import prices,
October manufacturing input prices; New Zealand, November trade balance.
Wednesday: UK, third quarter personal disposable income, third quarter
savings ratio (10 per cent); France, December trade balance (FFr2bn
surplus); US, November durable orders (down 0.1 per cent), November durable
shipments, November personal income (up 0.4 per cent), November PCE (up 0.4
per cent), auto sales Dec 11-20 (6.3m units); Canada, October investment in
CDollars securities; Japan, National Holiday, all Japanese markets closed.
Thursday: US, initial claims week ended December 12 (341,000), state
benefits week ended December 5, November export price index, import price
index, final December Michigan sentiment index, money supply data for the
week ended December 14, minutes released from the FOMC meeting of November
17; Australia, November motor vehicle registrations (up 1.5 per cent).
Friday: Christmas Day, all markets closed except Japan; Japan, December
consumer price index - Tokyo (up 1.1 per cent), excluding perishables (up
2.1 per cent), December CPI - nation (up 0.8 per cent), excluding
perishables (up 2.1 per cent), November unemployment rate, November retail
sales (down 4.1 per cent), November industrial production (down 0.7 per
cent), November construction orders, November housing starts (up 9.1 per
cent), November construction starts.
During the week: Germany, November M3 (up 9.3 per cent), cost of living for
Badenuertt, Hesse, Nord-rhine Westphalia and Bavaria, preliminary figures
for December cost of living (up 0.3 per cent on month, up 3.9 per cent on
year), GFK construction climate, November import prices (up 0.3 per cent on
month, down 4 per cent on year); Italy, November trade balance, November M2,
November balance of payments, November net foreign reserves, December CPI
(up 5 per cent); Belgium, December CPI (up 2 per cent on year).

The Financial Times


London Page 8

921221

