FT922-563

FT  26 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: BP's black day


Mr Robert Horton, until yesterday BP's chairman, is indeed blessed with a
good brain, as he told Forbes magazine in February. But it was not
sufficient to square the impossible circle of maintaining a dividend payment
costing over Pounds 900m. Earnings this year are unlikely to be much more
than half that and, on some estimates, cash is draining away at an annual
rate of over Pounds 1bn before disposals. His resignation means the dividend
cut from this quarter on is almost inevitable.
The question is what level would be sustainable. In the short run there
would be an argument for omitting the payment altogether. The resources to
pay for it are only being found by slimming the company through disposals
and cutbacks on capital spending. The slightly longer run view is not
necessarily that dire. BP's earnings are currently depressed by heavy
restructuring costs as well as weak refining margins and chemicals markets.
In more normal circumstances, it could expect to post around Pounds 1bn a
year in earnings, even with an oil price of Dollars 20 a barrel. A halved
dividend would then be comfortably covered about twice.
The initial New York market response to last night's announcement was that a
halved dividend is broadly what the market anticipates. The price there of
about 210p - 33p below the London close - would imply a yield of somewhat
over 5 per cent, close to that of Shell. The company was being pretty cagey
last night, however, and the immediate uncertainty is likely to prevent
yield funds climbing back in quickly at lower levels. The trouble is that if
BP is in for a rough ride, then so is the market as a whole.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920626

