FT921-1529

FT  24 MAR 92 / UK Company News: Claremont Garments enjoys independence with
initial Pounds 6.21m


   By DANIEL GREEN


AN IMPROVING market share helped Claremont Garments, which supplies clothes
to Marks and Spencer, limit the effects of the recession and post a pre-tax
profit for 48 weeks to December 28 of Pounds 6.21m, compared with a pro
forma figure of Pounds 6.42m.
Claremont demerged from Alexon, the womenswear retailer, in July 1991, the
Pounds 422,000 costs of which were taken as an extraordinary charge. The
second half showed an 11 per cent rise in turnover and Mr Peter Wiegand,
chairman, said the improvement had continued into the first two months of
1992.
The second half recovery helped push turnover for the period to Pounds 47.8m
(Pounds 46.3m).
Earnings per share were 14.4p (14.5p), or 15.6p (15.7p) annualised. The
company is paying a final dividend of 3.5p which, with a special demerger
dividend of 3p, gives a total for 48 weeks of 6.5p, or 7.04p annualised.
The pay-out policy is that dividend cover should remain 'a little over two'.
Strong cash flow and a reduction in working capital helped cut gearing from
50 per cent at the time of the demerger to less than 15 per cent, or Pounds
1.96m, at the year end. The interest charge fell from Pounds 1.01m to Pounds
527,000.
The flow of cash into the business has triggered a hunt for acquisitions.
Its ideal target would have a turnover of between Pounds 25m and Pounds 50m.
Claremont expected to announce a deal within six months at the most and
possibly within weeks, said Mr Wiegand.
COMMENT
Claremont was shielded from the worst of the recession by having Marks and
Spencer as a customer, but it also made the most of its position as the
demerger from Alexon allowed management to concentrate on manufacture. It
has done well to increase sales and will probably be cash positive by the
summer. Profits for 52 weeks this year could beat Pounds 7.5m, giving a
prospective p/e of about 13, close to the market. After a good run, the
share price looks to have risen far enough for the time being. With 93 per
cent of sales to Marks and Spencer, organic growth is doomed to be
unexciting. It will probably take a significant acquisition at a good price
for buyers to come flocking to the stock.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920324

