FT924-11978

FT  23 OCT 92 / Commodities and Agriculture: Russia-Yakutia diamond deal
welcomed by De Beers


   By LEYLA BOULTON


   MOSCOW


DE BEERS of South Africa yesterday welcomed a new arrangement between Russia
and Yakutia, the region which produces 99 per cent of Russian rough
diamonds, claiming it would end uncertainty over who controlled the Russian
diamond business.
Mr Gary Ralfe, head of De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organisation,
which dominates the world diamond trade, also said he believed that there
would be no Russian attempt to renegotiate an agreement giving De Beers a
virtual monopoly of sales of Russia's uncut diamonds before the deal expired
in 1995. That was at odds with earlier threats by Mr Leonid Gurevich,
parliament's co-chairman on a state commission examining the diamond
industry, who last night invited Mr Ralfe to his office for talks that may
produce more bad news for De Beers' quest for certainty.
Mr Ralfe said none the less he expected parliament today to endorse
Almazrossii-Sakha, the newly-created joint stock company giving 40 per cent
control to Yakutia and 32.5 per cent of the shares to the Russian
government. The remaining shares are to be held by unspecified statutory
bodies, he said.
'What I'm happy about is that there should be clarity or relative clarity
where before there was uncertainty,' he said during a visit to Moscow
coinciding with parliament's vote on the project. 'We want to be dealing
with a single authority which speaks for the whole of the Russian diamond
business.'
The new company is to be headed by Mr Valery Rudakov, who resigned this
summer as chairman of the state conglomerate grouping both gold and diamonds
with a bitter complaint that centralised control was disappearing.
Mr Ralfe added he had received assurances from Yakutia that it would not
team up with a Japanese company to set up a diamond-cutting plant and
suggested that if the project did go ahead, it would be with De Beers.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

921023

