FT922-609

FT  26 JUN 92 / Donors press India on reforms


   By DAVID HOUSEGO and REUTER


   PARIS, WASHINGTON


WESTERN donor nations yesterday expressed support for India's economic
reform programme but warned that the momentum of change should be
maintained.
At the annual gathering in Paris of the India Aid Consortium, Germany
pressed for more radical and rapid privatisation of Indian state-owned
enterprises declaring that there was 'no alternative for getting more
efficiency'. Germany, backing recommendations by the World Bank, said that
in the financial sector 'painful reforms' were needed and should be taken
soon.
Mr Montek Ahluwalia, the Indian secretary for economic affairs, told the
two-day meeting, which is being held under the chairmanship of the World
Bank, that the Bombay financial scandal would be used by the government to
accelerate financial sector reform.
He said the government would establish mechanisms to tighten supervision of
the banking system and to ensure the banks maintained greater internal
controls.
India told donor nations that it planned to open negotiations next month for
an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) borrowing from the IMF - though there is
some doubt whether India will get access to the Fund's lowest-cost money.
The World Bank warned the meeting of the continuing fragility of India's
balance of payments.
The Bank also said that, because of stagnant domestic oil production, oil
imports were likely to increase by 60 per cent in nominal terms over the
next five years.
Reuter adds from Washington: The US House of Representatives last night
voted to cut Dollars 24m (Pounds 12.9m) from a foreign aid bill to signal
disapproval of alleged human rights abuses by India in Kashmir and Punjab.
The funds were part of Dollars 1.4bn in development aid in the bill.
Editorial comment, Page 16; India survey, separate section.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

920626

