FT924-8299

FT  12 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Telephone exchanges


A quick glance at Cable and Wireless's agreement to sell 20 per cent of
Mercury to BCE for Pounds 480m might give investors the wrong impression.
Lord Young, C and W's chairman, was busy yesterday trumpeting the synergies
which would flow from co-operation between the two groups. Yet in anything
except the long-term these are fairly limited. Northern Telecom, partly
owned by BCE, is already a supplier to Mercury. Given the cut-throat way in
which equipment suppliers vie for business, Mercury would be unwise to allow
that relationship to become too cosy. Nor is Bell-Northern Research likely
to hand Mercury all of its best ideas for nothing, however friendly the
companies become. As for BCE's UK cable television services, Mercury has to
treat all cable companies equally and in any event already supplies all the
telephone services required.
Of course, the two may eventually find projects to develop jointly. But
success will depend on their fostering a collaborative spirit, something
which has eluded many alliances before. The financial benefits to C and W
are clearer. The price is reasonable. In the absence of a deal, capital
outflows over the next two years would have increased gearing from 26 per
cent to around 45 per cent. While that is not abnormally high for a telecoms
company, C and W is clearly in a better position to pitch for new franchises
 -from Bulgaria to Sweden - with a strengthened balance sheet. Having an
equity partner and a valuation placed on Mercury may also reassure
governments thinking of hiring C and W that the company is not
overstretched. Still, it is hard to escape the feeling that this is a deal
for a deal's sake. With the global telecoms business in flux, it seems C and
W wanted a partner. Whether it has found the right one remains to be seen.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

921112

