FT923-6359

FT  25 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: Cost of capital


If recent work by the National Institute is right, UK companies are far from
being bled dry by high real interest rates. As the chart shows, the overall
cost of debt and equity capital taken together has been remarkably stable
since the late 1980s and is not at present unduly high. The reason is clear:
equity capital remains cheap. Indeed, the risk premium over interbank
lending rates demanded by equity investors is currently around 2 per cent,
well below the long-term average.
Whether this state of affairs is sustainable is another matter. On past
evidence, the risk premium demanded by equity investors is generally low in
periods of low inflation. This could mean that the cost of equity capital
will stay down so long as high real interest rates deliver stable prices.
Yet high interest rates have often been part of a virtuous circle
encompassing stable prices and efficiency gains in industry leading to a
strong earnings recovery. The interim reporting season so far has been
notable for some deeply gloomy statements on the earnings outlook, and
tentative signs that companies in some sectors are starting to cut
productive capacity. It is far too early to predict that the virtuous circle
will turn vicious. But if the market concludes that high interest rates are
not on this occasion preparing the ground for an earnings recovery, logic
dictates that the risk premium and the cost of equity will rise. Investors
must hope that real interest rates can fall before this point is reached.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920825

