FT921-3856

FT  12 MAR 92 / International Company News: ANI reports 31% drop in earnings
for 7 months


   By KEVIN BROWN


   SYDNEY


AUSTRALIAN National Industries (ANI), an engineering group, yesterday
announced a 31 per cent cut in net profits to ADollars 33m (USDollars 24.8m)
for the seven months to the end of January, on sales down 17 per cent at
ADollars 669m.
Mr Max Sandow, chairman, said the result reflected falling demand caused by
severe recessions being experienced in the group's main markets in Australia
and the UK.
Mr Sandow said trading conditions were not expected to improve in the
remainder of the financial year. However, increased infrastructure spending
announced by the Australian government would eventually benefit many of the
group's businesses.
He said ANI may take advantage of its strong balance sheet by expanding its
core businesses through acquisitions.
The group said its recent acquisition of Spencer Clark Metal Industries in
the UK, a specialist metal processing company, would lead to a wide range of
profit improvements for its Aurora group of companies in the UK and Germany.
The Aurora companies suffered a severe downturn during the period because of
a decline in demand from the recession-affected aerospace and defence
industries.
However, ANI said significant cost reductions and continuing capital
expenditure had increased Aurora's competitiveness and profitability.
The interim dividend is unchanged at 5.3 cents a share, fully franked,
reflecting the company's strong cashflow and low debt, which declined by
ADollars 33m to ADollars 54m during the period.

The Financial Times


London Page 29

920312

