FT924-947

FT  21 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: Paper thin profits


The devaluation domino that has swept across the Nordic region has had at
least one strikingly beneficial effect: it has eased the pressures on the
forestry industry, which constitutes much of its manufacturing base.
Shares of leading Swedish pulp and paper companies in particular have
bounced strongly since the krona's devaluation. Profits prospects have
improved markedly as relative costs have shrunk. Last week, the SCA group
cited the benign effect of devaluation in lifting its annual profits
forecast from break-even to SKr300m-Skr400m. MoDo, too, should benefit from
having many of its manufacturing plants in weak currency countries. But
Europe's biggest paper group, Stora, may do less well: its exposure to
Germany will muffle any uplift.
Having bid the shares up so quickly, the market is now scratching its head
about the longer term prospects. Investors are still keen to move into
capital intensive sectors which have historically been at recovery's leading
edge. But the cyclical scenario may not be as simple as it seems. Severe
overcapacity in most paper grades continues to plague the industry.
Ironically, devaluation may have delayed rationalisation by baling out the
weakest players. The glut of recycled pulp in Europe will also undermine
price rises. But the biggest worry remains the deteriorating German market,
which accounts for about a quarter of European paper consumption. The
industry is not yet out of the woods.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

921221

