FT921-3827

FT  12 MAR 92 / Ukraine sets out to woo foreign investors


   By CHRYSTIA FREELAND


   KIEV


THE UKRAINIAN parliament yesterday passed a law offering foreign investors
extensive tax breaks and the right to repatriate profits in hard currency.
'If you look carefully, this is a revolution,' said one of the bill's
architects, Mr Oleksy Duntau, chairman of the parliamentary sub-committee on
foreign economic relations. 'Our country is open to foreign investment.'
Foreign investments, defined as ventures with a foreign stake of at least 20
per cent or with a foreign capital contribution of at least Dollars 100,000,
are granted a five-year tax holiday and thereafter pay only 50 per cent of
local taxes.
The law should serve as a tool for cutting through red tape which western
businessmen say is the biggest obstacle to investment in Ukraine. The
Ministry of Finance is obliged to register foreign businesses within three
days of making an application and the law requires government to swiftly
recompense foreign investors for any losses due to governmental 'activity or
inactivity.'
Nationalisation of foreign enterprises is forbidden and existing foreign
ventures are protected for 10 years from any changes to the legislation.
Foreigners are permitted full ownership of enterprises except as yet
undefined strategic sectors. They may also use locally earned currency to
bid for property when it is privatised later this year.
Profits may be fully repatriated, but are subject to a 15 per cent tax.
Goods imported for the use of foreign enterprises or their personnel are
exempt from customs and tariffs and the products of foreign enterprises may
be exported without export licences or duties.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

920312

