FT924-11962

FT  23 OCT 92 / Political battle in Moscow becomes heated


   By JOHN LLOYD


   MOSCOW


THE roaring political row in Russia continued yesterday, as Russian
President Boris Yeltsin warned the parliament against 'skidding to the
right' and General Alexander Rutskoi, the vice-president, demanded the
immediate sacking of six cabinet ministers and said that the privatisation
plan was designed to 'rob the country'.
The level of polemics has become increasingly bitter, as the pro- and
anti-government camps increasingly cast aside restraint. The government side
is very much on the defensive, warning of efforts to destabilise the cabinet
and the presidency - while the opposition, having refused the request from
Mr Yeltsin to postpone an inevitably hostile Congress of People's Deputies
from December to spring, is now hotly demanding cabinet resignations.
Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, one of three ministers under fire from
parliament for briefing foreign journalists on the likelihood of a move
against Mr Yeltsin, repeated his charges yesterday in and out of parliament.
Earlier, he had said that his warnings of efforts by hardline forces to
'introduce nationalism and chauvinism' were meant to alert Mr Yeltsin to the
threat to his position. 'It is not so much a matter of attacks on the
government, but of efforts to unseat the president himself - the only
legitimate representative of the Russian people'.
Gen Rutskoi was reported by a Moscow newspaper as saying that the question
of the cabinet should be considered on the first day of the congress.
Meanwhile, a statement from the doctor of Mr Ruslan Khasbulatov, the
parliamentary speaker, said that he was suffering from 'extreme exhaustion'
caused by intensive work, sleep restricted to five hours a day and heavy
smoking. On Wednesday, a group of democratic deputies said that they
believed Mr Khasbulatov had been under the influence of drink or drugs,
following a meeting with him after he had been led from the parliament.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

921023

