FT921-1233

FT  25 MAR 92 / International Company News: BSN net profits advance to
FFr3.91bn after disposals


   By ALICE RAWSTHORN


   PARIS


BSN, a leading company in the French food industry which has played a
pivotal part in the bitter battle for Perrier mineral water, yesterday
announced a 26 per cent increase in net profits to FFr3.91bn (Dollars
690.8m) in 1991 from FFr3.09bn in 1990.
BSN, which already owns well-known European food brands such as Evian
mineral water and Danone yoghurt, has added the Volvic mineral water brand
to its drinks interests as a result of its role in the Perrier affair.
The group, chaired by Mr Antoine Riboud, dramatically switched sides during
the bid by backing Nestle, the Swiss food group which is its arch-rival in
the European food market, against its traditional allies, the Agnelli family
of Italy.
Its decision to fight the Agnellis by staging a FFr6bn counter-bid for the
Exor property company was a critical component of Nestle's battle plan. Mr
Riboud maintained throughout that the bid would not affect BSN's
cross-interests with the Agnellis in Italy, such as the Galbani food
business.
The acquisition of Volvic forms part of the long-term restructuring of BSN's
activities. Last year, it sold its interests in champagne and also part of
its biscuit business. The impact of these disposals boosted net profits
which would otherwise have risen by a more modest 11.4 per cent, according
to the group.
Earnings per share increased to FFr66.1, against FFr53.4, or to FFr59
without the exceptional profits from the disposals. The board proposed
raising the dividend for 1991 to FFr14.5 from FFr13. Group turnover rose by
25 per cent to FFr66bn, compared with FFr52.9bn.

The Financial Times


London Page 27

920325

