FT922-4064

FT  08 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Europe's broken bond


The flag of dissent hoisted over Maastricht last week was a particularly
grim sight for participants in the Ecu bond market. Denmark's vote against
the treaty sent investors scurrying to sell, and left would-be issuers of
the fledgling Euro-currency looking distinctly glum. Their fear is that if
the Emu bandwagon really comes off the rails, the Ecu will prove a basket
case in more senses than one. It will revert to its original status as a
basket of currencies, useful merely as a convenient short cut to investing
separately in each of the component parts.
Until the first half of 1991, Ecu bonds generally traded around their
theoretical, or synthetic yields. But when it became clear that the Ecu
could be transformed one day into a proper parallel currency, spreads
between the actual and theoretical yield began to reflect more than the mere
saving on transaction costs. The signing of the Maastricht Treaty by heads
of government last December prompted a rash of new Ecu bond issues and saw
spreads on some maturities reaching 60 to 80 basis points over the
theoretical yield.
In retrospect it is hard to account for the euphoria. But a premium at the
time seemed justified on the grounds that Ecu depreciation was a lesser risk
than individual currency depreciation in the run-up to monetary union. That
was based on a political calculation which, following the Danish vote, can
no longer be taken for granted. Hence Friday's further fall-out in the Ecu
bond market, when spreads fell below 10 basis points.
On the basis that the Ecu is still destined to be Europe's currency but that
the date has been pushed into the next century, the longer-dated issues may
still be worth holding. Until the dust settles, fair value for shorter
maturities must surely be close to the theoretical yield.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920608

