FT921-599

FT  28 MAR 92 / Letter: Oxfam aims on poverty


   From Ms BELINDA COOTE


Sir, As author of Oxfam's book, 'The Trade Trap: Poverty and the Global
Commodity Markets' (March 24), I feel your reviewer, David Dodwell, has
misrepresented its content.
Nowhere in the book do I suggest that alternative trade or 'development
friendly consumerism' are in themselves a solution to the problems facing
commodity-dependent developing countries. This is why the book focuses on
structural inequalities in the international trading system which undermine
the welfare of producers in the South. The policy recommendations include
calls for the withdrawal of trade barriers in the North, reform of the
Common Agricultural Policy and the creation of a genuinely multilateral
world trade system. Without such reforms it is difficult to see how
international trade can act as an engine of growth and recovery for the
South.
Mr Dodwell would have preferred to see a greater focus on problems created
by governments in the South. Oxfam is well aware of policy failures of Third
World governments, which are explored in the book. But our main purpose was
to expose links between poverty and trade arising from distortions in the
international market place. This is why we focus on the need for
international good governance, and call on the North to extend the
principles of democracy and co-operation to the management of world trade.
Finally, Mr Dodwell's equation of alternative trade with CAP cannot pass
without comment. Whereas the benefits of the CAP are enjoyed
disproportionately by the biggest farmers, our alternative trade proposals
are intended to enable highly vulnerable producers to participate more
effectively in international markets.
Belinda Coote,
Oxfam,
274 Banbury Road, Oxford

The Financial Times


London Page 9

920328

