FT924-1081

FT  19 DEC 92 / Travel: Great Lakes and jumping mice - Practical Traveller


   By MICHAEL THOMPSON-NOEL


WHAT is it about Canada that invites so many jokes? Denis Leary, the
American comedian, says he wants a Patriot missile launcher so that he can
sit in his swimming pool 'and blow up Canada'. I have always liked the
place. It is not particularly boring. Some of it is lively: Toronto, for
example, which many fair-minded souls would rate among the best cities in
North America: spacious, friendly, some distinguished modern architecture,
always a lot happening, excellent shopping and food - and safe. Toronto is
said to have very few muggers. Critics say Toronto is more about style than
substance, but they are the sort of people who probably like Detroit.
Last winter, short-stay travel between Britain and Ontario picked up
smartly. The most popular short-stay products were minibreaks in Toronto
(including Niagara Falls) and Ottawa, resort visits (snow-mobiling, dog
sledding, and cross-country and downhill skiing), and winter fly-drive
tours. The London-Toronto flight takes about six hours, so you can leave
London on Friday morning, have two and three-quarter days there and be back
in London by Monday morning.
Globespan (0737-773055) is selling London-Toronto flights from Pounds 239
plus tax, with hotels from Pounds 36 per room per night. Thomas Cook
(0733-330111) has short breaks in Toronto and Ottawa from Pounds 334, plus
Niagara Falls, resort stays and winter fly-drive. Capture Canada
(081-393-0127) has Toronto three-night breaks from Pounds 319 and the same
for Ottawa from Pounds 324. Travescene and Crystal Holidays are joining the
fray.
Another operator, All Canada Travel and Holidays (0502-585825), offers
practically everything, including skiing, winter sports and city breaks.
An example is an eight-day, self-drive Ontario winter-break giving three
nights in Toronto and four nights at one of two Muskoka hotels, Pow Wow
Point Lodge or the well-equipped Deerhurst Resort, three hours' drive from
Toronto. Prices per person (twin-bedded room) are Pounds 348-Pounds 375, or
Pounds 628-Pounds 698 for singles. Prices include seven nights'
accommodation, five days' car hire and basic insurance, but not
trans-Atlantic flights.
Air-fares are reasonable at present. Air Canada (081-759-2636) recently cut
Pounds 50 off some winter fares. Until March 31 1993, excluding the
Christmas period, it will quote you Pounds 259 return: Heathrow, Glasgow or
Manchester to Toronto (some booking restrictions; minimum stay seven
nights). If you only want to stay the weekend, check fares with bucket shops
or agents. (Word to the wise: Air Canada is a no-smoking carrier,
trans-Atlantic flights and all).
Once winter passes, you might want to use Toronto as a base or launch-pad
for touring the Great Lakes. Not all at once, though. There are five Great
Lakes - Huron, Ontario, Michigan, Erie and Superior - with a total coastline
of 11,000 miles.
The Great Lakes region includes Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New
York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin in the US, and Ontario in Canada -
427,358 square miles, almost as large as the EC. There are 637 state parks,
two national parks, 191 downhill ski areas, 47,000 miles of snow-mobile
trails, more than 5,000 miles of cross-country ski trails, and 4,659 golf
courses.
I visited Deerhurst Resort recently, north of Toronto, and found it sporty
and relaxed. It has facilities for almost everything. Close by is Algonquin
provincial park, excellent for canoeing (more than 800 miles of canoe
routes), backpacking, fishing and wildlife. As well as moose, black bears
and other big things, Algonquin hosts two members of the jumping mice
family, the meadow jumping mouse and the woodland jumping mouse. Not many
people know that.
From Deerhurst, I returned to Toronto, took the train to Windsor, crossed
the US border into Michigan (close your eyes when passing through Detroit)
and drove 180 miles, via Kalamazoo, to the eastern shore of Lake Michigan,
stopping at one of the most picturesque and charming small fishing ports -
South Haven - you could hope to find. If you make it to South Haven and are
travelling with the chairman's wife, try and stay at the Old Harbour Inn
(515 Williams St, tel: (616)-637-8480. You will not find better-appointed
jacuzzi suites or nicer beds for. . . 11,000 miles.
More information: Ontario Ministry of Tourism & Recreation, 21
Knightsbridge, London SW1X 7LY, tel: 071-245-1222; Michigan Travel Bureau,
Suite F, 333 South Capitol, Lansing, MI 48909, tel: (517)-335-1879.

The Financial Times


London Page VIII

921219

