FT922-13341

FT  11 APR 92 / Businesses urged to account for goodwill


   By ANDREW JACK


COMPANY accounts should include both goodwill and intangible assets on their
balance sheets, a paper commissioned by the Accounting Standards Board has
recommended.
The accounts must also include detailed information on how valuations of the
assets have been determined so that outside observers can assess their
reliability, the authors argue.
Intangible assets are the non-physical parts of a business that generate
future earnings, such as brand names. Goodwill is defined as the difference
between the purchase price of an acquisition and the value of its tangible
assets.
Companies have in growing numbers begun including intangible assets on their
balance sheets.
Mr David Tweedie, chairman of the Accounting Standards Board, said yesterday
that the report was only preliminary and the academics had now been asked to
provide a further study examining practical applications of the concepts.
Although his own previously published views appear to reflect much of the
content of the paper, Mr Tweedie emphasises that the board has not yet
formed a view on the subject. It is expected to produce a discussion
document in the autumn for a standard covering goodwill and possibly
intangible assets.
The study, co-ordinated by Mr John Arnold at Manchester University, says
goodwill on acquisitions comprises three elements: the fair value of any
intangible assets, the present value of benefits arising, and any
underpayment or over-payment. The first two should be included on the
balance sheet and depreciated, the third written off.
The study argues that long-term investments are already treated on the
balance sheet in that way, and that intangibles should be included to retain
consistency.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920411

