FT921-15527

FT  09 JAN 92 / The Lex Column: AGF/AMB


The apparent ease with which Assurances Generales de France (AGF) has built
up a 25 per cent stake in Aachener und Munchener Beteiligungs (AMB) must be
highly embarrassing for the German company. AMB has already made a
well-publicised hash of combining banking with insurance, but it is not
exactly the local tradition for shareholders to dash for the exit in this
way.
The deal confirms AGF's reputation as one of the EC's more far-sighted
insurers. The price looks a bargain by comparison with other cross-border
deals, representing an estimated 20 per cent to 30 per cent discount to net
assets. In the process, France's number two composite gets one step closer
to its goal of a major presence in the German market.
The immediate obstacles, of course, are AMB's preference for a European
alliance with the UK's Royal and Fondiaria of Italy and its refusal to
recognise more than 9 per cent of AGF's votes. One possibility is that the
French will ultimately join a four-legged grouping. Friendly deals are
preferred on the continent, and might be in Royal's interest too. Hopes are
already high that the joint venture can improve Royal's solvency margin by
the deconsolidation of its Italian premium income and the exchange of assets
for cash. But given the parlous state of AMB and Fondiaria, the scope for
balance sheet repairs has almost certainly been exaggerated. AGF is stronger
than the others and has much more to offer. But it will only do so on
radically different terms.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920109

