FT923-15466

FT  02 JUL 92 / The Lex Column: Continental/Pirelli


It is easy to feel outrage at the efforts of Continental, the German tyre
company, to restrict Pirelli from exercising full voting rights over the 40
per cent it directly or indirectly controls. But investors attending
tomorrow's annual meeting should consider the risks before they throw out
the limitation on any one shareholder voting more than five per cent. Unlike
the UK, Germany has no takeover code requiring all shareholders to receive
equal treatment in a bid. The five per cent rule, which gives bargaining
rights to a broad corpus of shareholders, is the only effective barrier to
takeover by stealth, as Hoesch found to its cost when confronted by Krupp.
By allowing Pirelli full voting rights, other shareholders would be giving
it effective control without gaining anything in return. Pirelli argues that
it is now too deeply engrossed in its own domestic restructuring programme
to entertain hostile intentions towards Continental. It is interested in
being enfranchised only so that it can extract full value from its holding.
Eventually, it could realise a higher price for itself through the sale of
its enfranchised stake. That might help Continental's share price by putting
Pirelli's shares in firmer hands, but the purchaser would have no obligation
to other shareholders. Germany needs a proper takeover code, if its
corporate sector is to secure more foreign capital. There is no point in
going half-way towards democracy, least of all when the benefit would accrue
to a company which originally acquired its interests through a network of
indemnified undercover alliances.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920702

