FT923-9688

FT  04 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: Trafalgar House


There can be few less loved shares in the market at present than those of
Trafalgar House. Yesterday's statement from the company inspired a mild
bounce to 59p - against a price of more than 90p just three weeks ago - but
it is hard to see investors getting carried away merely on the back of the
board's soothing reassurance.
Part of the problem lies in Trafalgar's dismal relations with the City: a
record of misplaced optimism and doubtful accounting policies is no
foundation on which to rally friends in difficult times. The main cause of
concern is the pace and extent of the cash outflow - on the company's own
admission likely to be at least Pounds 320m for the year to September -
though even if the fears have been exaggerated there seems little compelling
reason to buy the company's shares on cyclical grounds. If anything, its
dominant construction and engineering businesses are only now entering the
toughest part of the UK downturn, with wafer thin margins and keen
competition. The Pounds 3.5bn order book alluded to yesterday is of little
avail if it fails to make a profit. Commercial property - and to a lesser
extent housebuilding - will be in the doldrums for some time.
To be fair, Trafalgar looks to be comfortably within its banking covenants,
would yield more than the market average solely on the basis of a final
dividend equivalent to a quarter of last year's final payout, and on a
forced break-up appears to have ample asset backing. For a market with
diminishing faith in fundamentals, this may be scarcely relevant.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920804

