FT922-13297

FT  13 APR 92 / People: Investing in Hardy


Bankers Trust Investment Management, the investment arm of the US bank, has
chosen David Hardy, former chairman of the London Docklands Development
Corporation, as non-executive chairman of its London operation.
Hardy, who stands some six feet eight inches tall, is an old City hand who
has seen the game from a number of perspectives. Finance director of Tate &
Lyle in the mid 1970s, he is more recently remembered for the bruising,
ultimately unsuccessful, fight he put up on behalf of Globe Investment Trust
against the British Coal Pension Funds. He was chairman of Globe when BCPF
swallowed what was then Britain's largest investment trust in 1990. He is
currently also on the board of a number of other companies, including
Hanson.
While the role of LDCC has been at best controversial, he claims to have
'created jobs at a very competitive cost. I'm still convinced Docklands is
the place of the future,' adds the 61-year-old Hardy - admitting to being
'shattered' by the turmoil into which Canadian developer Olympia & York is
now plunged.
While Bankers Trust manages Pounds 75bn of funds worldwide, London accounts
for a small proportion of that whole, with BTIM Ltd specialising in active
management of European equities as well as structured quantitative
techniques. BT claims to be among the top five index managers in the UK, but
Hardy, with his extensive contacts, has been taken aboard to raise the
profile of the European business further. His contribution will be in
'developing the European corporate and marketing strategy'.
Previously, BTIM Ltd was chaired by Kent Atkins, the New York-based boss of
the worldwide investment management group.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

920413

