FT924-5953

FT  24 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Still hurting


One day's trading since the weekend's ERM realignment leaves little doubt
that the market has decided to judge it harshly. There is no knowing how
long it will take for something else to snap - that may depend on whether
Ireland has a finance minister to sign away his currency after tomorrow's
election - but there is a tell-tale whiff of trouble in the air. One month
Irish interest rates are at 35 per cent. The Danish crown is close to its
D-Mark floor. France pushed short term rates back over 10 per cent and
intervened to support the franc.
The French currency may not be first in the firing line, but each bout of
currency instability exposes growing European disillusion with the
employment cost of fixed exchange rates. Alongside the Danish krone, the
franc would certainly look vulnerable if the punt and Norwegian crown were
to be toppled. That would raise doubts not only about the viability of the
ERM itself but also about the shape of any residual inner core of strong
currencies clustered round the D-Mark.
The interest rate convergence theory is thus suddenly suspect for currencies
hitherto regarded as close to the centre. The yield premium over German
bunds and both French and Danish bonds widened yesterday. Then again, a
fresh attack on the franc could pose the Bundesbank with an awful dilemma.
It might either have to cut rates against its better judgment or risk a new
surge in its money supply from intervention, followed by a French
devaluation that would make German industry almost hopelessly uncompetitive.
What price then on it still refusing to adopt the former course?

The Financial Times


London Page 22

921124

