FT924-1080

FT  19 DEC 92 / Travel: On the trail of the true safari - Practical
Traveller


   By DAVID PILLING


THE WORD 'safari' is not without controversy writes David Pilling. Take the
following extract from one travel brochure: 'Anyone who goes to Africa
without walking in the bush or sleeping in a tent has only been on holiday,
not on safari.'
This definition excludes many who would swear they had enjoyed the ultimate
wildlife experience, but it hints at the breadth of choice available. There
are package tours, adventure or luxury camping, stays in lodges or private
homesteads, safaris to two or more countries, activity safaris, even fly-in
safaris to remote areas.
Old Africa hands are prone to caricature package tours as the Costa del
Kenya, but off-the-rack tours can be good value. Take Hayes and Jarvis (tel:
081-748-5050), which offers seven days in Kenya's Tsavo and Amboseli
national parks from Pounds 499. Clients stay in basic campsites (putting up
their own tents) and travel in minibuses. Most tack on a week at the beach.
Thomson Holidays (071-431-2005) has a Worldwide brochure which includes
safari options in Kenya and Tanzania. One tour combining both countries
starts at Pounds 1,299, staying in lodges. Thomson guarantees a minibus
window seat.
Abercrombie & Kent (071-730-7795) organises slightly grander itineraries,
such as its 12-day luxury-tented tour built around the wildebeest migration
through Tanzania's Serengeti park. Departure is on February 13 1993 at an
all-inclusive cost of Pounds 2,224. The same company offers gorilla-tracking
in Zaire (Pounds 937 from Nairobi) and a 16-day Botswana tour for Pounds
2,338.
Bales (0306-885991) has similar deals, for example a 12-day escorted tour
through Zimbabwe and Botswana for Pounds 2,390. Its safaris are often
combined with Nile cruises. Twickers World (081-892-7606) concentrates on
Zambia ('unspoiled and relatively unsophisticated') and Zimbabwe. A 15-day
foray to Zambia's Luangwa Valley works out at just under Pounds 2,000. Kuoni
(071-374-6601) is generally a little cheaper, with safaris part of a
beach-holiday package in Kenya, Mauritius or the Seychelles.
With upmarket tours, flights should be scheduled, groups smaller,
itineraries more flexible and imaginative, accommodation better, transport
private (preferably in open-topped, four-wheel drive vehicles), and game
parks less crowded. Make sure you know precisely what you are paying for.
One way to ensure this is to have your safari tailor-made. Good companies
should listen to your requirements, which might include: particular types of
game or landscape, an aversion to tents, minimum travel by road, or a fear
of small aircraft. Your consultant should have bags of ideas, be realistic
about your budget, and have on-the-ground experience of the options being
offered.
Art of Travel (071-738-2038), with which I travelled to Namibia's
magnificent Skeleton Coast, is an extremely helpful and enthusiastic
company. Others in this category are Safari Consultants (0787-228-494),
Grenadier Travel (0206-549585) and Tempo Travel (081-361-1131).
The main safari countries are Kenya, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana and South
Africa as well as - to a lesser extent - Namibia, Malawi and Zambia. Gorilla
spotters go to Rwanda and Zaire.
Kenya is most popular (though sometimes crowded), with heart-rendingly
spectacular scenery. Tanzania's landscape is no less overwhelming and many
consider it Africa's greatest wildlife treasure, though economic
difficulties make for poor infrastructure and occasionally second-rate
accommodation. Zambia, rarely visited, has similar problems, but can be
outstandingly rewarding.
The scenery in Zimbabwe does not match that of east Africa, but there is
abundant wildlife, especially elephants. Botswana boasts the Okavango Delta,
while Namibia has desert wildlife and the famous Etosha national park.
Safaris are best in the dry season when grass is low and the game
congregates around water. Do not rule out the off-season, though. You may
see fewer animals but you will also see fewer fellow tourists.

The Financial Times


London Page IX

921219

