FT921-15437

FT  10 JAN 92 / UK Company News: Improved severance for Cityvision board


Directors of Cityvision voted to improve their own severance terms about the
time they were holding talks with US-based Blockbuster Entertainment Company
about a recommended bid, according to Blockbuster's offer documents.
Blockbuster made an offer to acquire Cityvision on November 22 1991 in a
shares and cash deal valued at Pounds 75m. Shareholders have been urged by
the company's management to accept the offer.
An official at J Henry Schroder Wagg, adviser to Cityvision, said that the
talks had actually broken down by the time the enhanced terms were approved.
However, Blockbuster's offer document says that representatives of the two
companies met on several occasions in the late summer of 1991 'to discuss
whether Cityvision would consider possible types of business combinations'.
The document notes that the talks were inconclusive and ceased on September
6.
The document also notes that on August 30 1991, three of the four directors'
contracts were amended to increase the amount of severance they would
receive from 2 times annual earnings to 2 1/2 times. The contracts were also
amended to allow the directors to earn severance if they left voluntarily
following the acquisition of a 20 per cent stake in Cityvision - up from the
previous level of 10 per cent.
Mr Beverley Ripley, Cityvision chairman, earns an annual salary of Pounds
116,640 while Mr Terry Norris, managing director, earns Pounds 110,160. Mr
RG Prime and Mr GM Brown, directors, earn Pounds 64,800 and Pounds 100,980
respectively.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920110

