FT922-3972

FT  09 JUN 92 / The FT Review of Business Books (16): Myth of Japan's
miracle - Industry


   By KEVIN RAFFERTY


JAPANESE INDUSTRIAL TARGETING by William R Hester Macmillan Pounds 45, 297
pages
JAPANESE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: THEORY AND PRACTICE by Penelope Francks
Routledge Pounds 12.99, 320 pages
WILLIAM HESTER examines Japan's economic 'miracle' and demolishes the
country's claims that it was the culmination of hard work and free market
enterprise. It was, asserts Hester, the result of neo-mercantile policies,
targeting of carefully selected industries backed by cartels, subsidies,
incentives to export and barriers to import.
It is a remorseless, humourless account, largely derived from other people's
research. He does not try to explain how and why Japan was successful,
whereas other countries tried to guide development and fell flat on their
faces. Occasionally Hester slips up, for example when he claims that the
Bank of Japan governor and his deputy always come from the Ministry of
Finance. (In fact career Bank officials have provided two of the last three
governors).
Francks sets Japan's post-war economic miracle in its historical framework,
going back to examine the Meiji and pre-Meiji roots of growth. Her
schoolmarmish approach and determination to see what lessons Japan affords
for other countries grate from time to time. Never the less, she makes a
useful contribution to the debate about how and why Japan was so successful.
She points out that Japan's is no monolithic 'developmental state' and that
state intervention is not the answer for its success. Her conclusions are
limited but important. Japan can offer lessons for the Third World that the
West cannot. But attempts to follow Japan are leading to friction and fear.
It is doubtful whether Francks' attempt to lend perspective will allay this.

The Financial Times


London Page VIII

920609

