FT924-886

FT  22 DEC 92 / International Company News: Ciga sells control of Italian
hotels arm for L301bn


   By HAIG SIMONIAN


   MILAN


CIGA, the heavily-indebted international hotels group controlled by the Aga
Khan, is selling majority control of its Italian hotel-owning arm in an
eleventh hour attempt to reduce borrowings in time for a year-end deadline
with its bankers.
However, the L301bn (Dollars 214m) sale of 51 per cent of Ciga Immobiliare,
the subsidiary owning the group's Italian hotels, is still subject to
agreement from creditor banks before taking effect.
Ciga is selling the stake to Situr, a fast-growing private-sector Italian
property development and entertainment group, which already has a variety of
travel and tourism interests. Situr will buy into Ciga Immobiliare via a
capital increase.
Separately, Ciga will purchase the 49 per cent share in Ciga Immobiliare
Sardegna, its Sardinian real estate subsidiary, currently owned by Fimpar,
the Aga Khan's listed holding company. CIS will then be sold on to the Aga
Khan and Situr.
The Aga Khan, who was the main force behind the tourist development of
Sardinia's Costa Smeralda where the CIS assets are based, will buy 80 per
cent of the company, with the remainder going to Situr. Fimpar will make
L95bn from the sale, while the remaining proceeds will go to Ciga
Immobiliare, by then majority-owned by Situr.
The complex transactions should reduce Ciga's group debt from almost
L1,000bn to L330bn. The reduction will come through the cash injection from
Situr and by the removal from Ciga's balance sheet of borrowings by Ciga
Immobiliare. A further slice of debt will be lifted following the Aga Khan's
agreement to convert into equity L61bn of Ciga convertible bonds by the end
of this year.
However, the deal with Situr hinges on agreement by Ciga's bankers to
restructure its remaining debts from short to longer-term maturities.

The Financial Times


London Page 17

921222

