FT921-1525

FT  24 MAR 92 / UK Company News: China clay volume sales help ECC to Pounds
115.4m - Net debt reduced from Pounds 246.5m to Pounds 132.5m, giving
gearing of 17 per cent


   By ANDREW TAYLOR, Construction Correspondent


ECC GROUP, the world's largest supplier of china clay, yesterday announced
pre-tax profits of Pounds 115.4m for 1991. This represents a 15 per cent
advance on the Pounds 100.3m reported for the 15 months to December 31 1990,
but a 58 per cent increase on the unaudited annualised Pounds 73.3m for the
notional 1990 year.
Mr Andrew Teare, chief executive, said that even stripping out last time's
Pounds 32m exceptional provision against redundancies and restructuring - in
1991 there was a Pounds 2.2m credit - the profits figure this time would
still have been 7.5 per cent higher than the annualised figure.
A further Pounds 8m to Pounds 10m of profits were generated through
disposals and cost reductions following the group's reorganisation, said Mr
Teare.
The increase in underlying profits was helped by the first-time contribution
from Georgia Kaolin, the US china clay company acquired for Dollars 340m in
December 1990. The GK contribution meant that ECC's volume sales of china
clay, which is used mainly for fillers and coatings by the paper industry,
rose by about 12 per cent last year despite a worldwide decline in demand of
about 2 per cent for fillers and coatings.
The group, which also has aggregates businesses in the UK and US, generated
a positive cash flow of Pounds 114m last year, of which about half came from
disposals. The money was used to reduce net debt from Pounds 246.5m at
end-1990 to Pounds 132.5m at end-1991, representing gearing of about 17 per
cent.
During 1991 the labour force was cut by more than 2,000 to 10,800. Many of
the job losses were in the UK where ECC is in the process of pulling out of
housebuilding.
Earnings per share almost doubled from the annualised 15.54p to 32.59p,
while they advanced 45 per cent on the 15 month 22.48p figure.
Dividend payments on ordinary shares for the calendar years 1990 and 1991
rose from 19.6p to 20p, with a proposed final of 13.4p. The payments for the
15-month period totalled 24.5p. The group said that it expected dividend
payments in 1992, on capital increased by its recent Pounds 209m rights
issue, to be at least equal to those in 1991. The issue was 92 per cent
subscribed.
COMMENT
China clay profits, helped by Georgia Kaolin, rose by almost a third to
Pounds 97.7m between the two calendar years - with the US acquisition making
a positive contribution of about 2 1/2 p to earnings. Building material
profits on the same basis fell 28 per cent to Pounds 24.1m despite an
improved performance in the US. Housebuilding helped by land sales was
virtually unchanged at Pounds 14m. The 18-month rise in the group's share
price, however, has less to do with trading performance and more to do with
improvement in the balance sheet and the more focused approach to the core
businesses of china clay and building materials. Profits of Pounds 125m
would place the stock on a prospective p/e of 14. The shares are worth
keeping.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920324

