FT924-6265

FT  21 NOV 92 / Arts: Versatile mezzo


   By ANDREW CLEMENTS


THE MEZZO Cynthia Clarey has been singing the role of Serena to much acclaim
in Covent Garden's staging of Porgy and Bess. But her appearance in the
Purcell Room on Wednesday in the South Bank's Song Series was not quite the
exhilarating experience one had hoped to hear - splendid in parts, yet
dutiful and prosaic in others.
The programming seemed miscalculated; it was designed obviously to
demonstrate Ms Clarey's versatility yet managed to submerge her engaging
personality in the process. The highlights were almost all confined to the
second, American half of the evening - a group of four spirituals, a
Sondheim encore and especially six of Copland's settings of Emily Dickinson.
Here she was able to relax a little, and allow her singing to blossom, her
tone to acquire many more interesting lights and tints, using a parlando
edge to some of her phrases with winning expressive effect. At the close she
was projecting herself with more directness than at any other time; more
Americana, perhaps the whole of the Copland set, should have been prescribed
beforehand. Instead Ms Clarey had laboured through heavyweight German song,
always cautious and only intermittently sparking into dramatic life. Haydn's
cantata Arianna a Naxos is always a dogged thing with which to begin an
evening, and even her accompanist, the usually creative Iain Burnside, made
heavy weather of his contribution. There was a hint of theatricality in the
final aria, and flair and dashing enjoyment in 'Hexenlied', the second of
two Mendelssohn songs. But in Schumann's Frauenliebe und Leben everything
was damped down again, safety was the watchword and one longed for her to
abandon caution and just to sing.

The Financial Times


London Page XVIII

921121

