FT924-7994

FT  13 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Autumn chill


So much for the government's growth rhetoric. The demise of the car tax, and
increased capital allowances sounded flashy but it is not as if Pounds 400
off a Ford Escort will cause a stampede in the showroom. Capital allowances
are not much use unless companies have the cash to invest and profits
against which to claim relief. The chancellor's recovery package yesterday
involved extra borrowing of only about 0.6 per cent of GDP over the next
three years. At least he was refreshingly candid about what it will achieve.
Growth will be no more than 1 per cent next year.
What financial markets have been seeking since Black Wednesday is a
purposeful and predictable strategy with a sensible mix between fiscal and
monetary policy. Instead, what they got yesterday still looks like a muddled
and piecemeal attempt to please everyone. Mr Lamont is at pains to appear
cautious on the fiscal front, but just in case that does not convince, he is
full of rectitude on the monetary front too - at least by the standards of
those who were looking for a 2 point cut in base rates.
Perhaps the truth is that the government is still boxed in. On the fiscal
side it is hobbled by the sheer size of social security payments and, now
additionally, debt interest. Even so the background does not leave much room
for growth. The underlying inflation rate next year is expected to be 3.75
per cent, and the current account deficit to rise to Pounds 15.5bn from
Pounds 12bn.
The stock market may have been rash to flirt with record levels yesterday.
The gilt market will have to contend with a PSBR of at least Pounds 44bn
next year - more if the attempt at pay restraint fails. The chances are that
a weak government will face some ugly confrontations in the labour market.
Hardly what the prospective buyer of gilts on Zurich's Bahnhofstrasse likes
to see.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

921113

