FT923-9648

FT  04 AUG 92 / International Bonds: IADB set to launch Dollars 500m offer


   By TRACY CORRIGAN


THE Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) plans to launch a Dollars 500m
offering of long-dated bonds later this month. The agency, which has not yet
decided whether to tap the US Yankee or the Eurobond market, will take bids
this week from seven firms under the new syndicate structure set up in May.
The IADB has so far raised Dollars 2.6bn of its Dollars 5.5bn borrowing
programme this financial year, which runs to the end of the calendar year.
Of the agency's remaining Dollars 2.9bn funding requirement, the IADB needs
about Dollars 800m in dollars, Dollars 1.2bn in yen and Dollars 900m in
D-Marks or Swiss francs, according to Mr Carlos Santistevan, treasurer.
However, the agency may borrow in other markets and swap the proceeds into
the required currencies.
Elsewhere, the Eurobond market started August, traditionally its quietest
month, in a subdued manner. Abbey National took advantage of stronger demand
for floating-rate paper to launch a Dollars 100m structured FRN, arranged by
Merrill Lynch, with a minimum coupon of 5 per cent, and a step-up maximum
coupon.
Mitsubishi Bank raised Dollars 520m of lower tier 2 capital through two
offerings of fixed-rate subordinated bonds via a financial subsidiary.
British Gas announced plans to set up an Ecu1.5bn Euro-medium term note
programme, to be signed in early autumn.
The company's first MTN programme, arranged by Swiss Bank Corporation,
represents 'an extension of the facilities available for funding,' said Mr
Arthur Burgess, group treasurer of British Gas. The company will channel
some of the funding it has previously carried out in the Eurobond market
through the programme.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

920804

