FT924-11448

FT  26 OCT 92 / The Lex Column: Investment trusts


Year on year UK dividends fell in nominal terms in August and September  -
the first time this has happened since 1967. But the full impact will not be
felt by shareholders in income-minded investment trusts for up to 12 months.
Because of the time-lag many trust boards are still able to declare or
forecast increased payouts of 4 to 5 per cent for this year.
The point is significant in view of the opportunistic way leading investment
managers used the lure of a high yield - allied to the attractions of
Personal Equity Plans - to raise new money from investors. Faced with the
grim outlook for dividends, moreover, one can assume that all income trusts
are now seeking ways of softening the blow when it comes. An obvious trick
is to switch the underlying trust portfolio into higher yielding stocks,
assuming greater risk and narrowing the scope for future income growth in
the process. County NatWest's latest investment trust annual notes that half
the 76 trusts surveyed already have a year-end portfolio yield which could
only be marginally increased without reducing portfolio quality.
Revenue reserves are a useful weapon, especially for the bigger and older
trusts - and will certainly be drawn on - though these reserves are not what
they were 10 years ago. There are other expedients such as accounting on a
cash rather than an ex-dividend basis - thus producing a one-off uplift in
earnings - and charging part of management expenses to the capital rather
than the revenue account. There is no point in pretending, however, that any
of this enhances shareholder value.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

921026

