FT923-9830

FT  03 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: When rights go wrong


These are bad times for big rights issues. Last Friday BET's shares closed
at 110p, bang on the price for its Pounds 200m issue which closes this
Wednesday. BET's is the 12th rights issue of more than Pounds 100m in the
past year. Of the other 11, eight have underperformed the market since the
issue was announced. Even allowing for striking successes like De La Rue and
Bowater, the crude average is an underperformance of 11 per cent. Extending
the list back to last spring brings in real turkeys like Trafalgar House and
Taylor Woodrow, which have underperformed the market by 73 per cent and 75
per cent respectively.
The reasons for underperformance are various. Mostly, they come down to the
fact that the companies wanting money were either in struggling sectors -
contracting, hotels, building materials - or were struggling themselves,
like Asda or British Aerospace. The other common theme is that the
institutions ought to have known that perfectly well at the time. Either
they were resigned to throwing good money after bad, or they were still
naive enough to be drawn by the spurious promise of something for nothing.
The institutions are bound to catch on sooner or later. For companies, the
rational response would be to exploit the growing institutional fashion for
bonds rather than equities. The UK corporate bond market is still grossly
underdeveloped. But if the outlook really is for low inflation and low
growth, long-term fixed rate finance should suit borrowers as well as
lenders. Finance directors might argue that they cannot be sure of servicing
fixed rate obligations. If that is so, they have no business calling on
their shareholders either.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

920803

