FT924-1061

FT  19 DEC 92 / Arts: Restoration work completed on Benozzo Gozzoli's
frescoes in the 'Magi Chapel'


Restoration work has been completed on one of the great masterpieces of
renaissance painting - Benozzo Gozzoli's frescoes in the 'Magi Chapel' of
the Medici Riccardi Palace in Florence. The frescoes, executed between
1459-63 and depicting the procession of the Three Kings and the company of
Adoring Angels, will be open to the public appropriately in time for
Christmas.
The restorers have been able to remove the dirt of ages and several
indifferent restorations. In so doing they have managed to re-establish the
magnificent delicacy of Gozzoli's style and his rich colouring. In these
frescoes green is one of the essential colours. But because the chapel is
enclosed within the palace, the original frescoes have been protected from
light and this has prevented the normal - and irremediable - conversion of
green colouring to brown.
Among the restorers' discoveries were two blue seraphim in the sky,
cancelled out in earlier restoration, as well as enhancement of the
background, uncovering previously hidden vegetation. The portraits of
Gozzoli's contemporaries in the Magi's procession, including young Lorenzo
the Magnificent, can also been seen more clearly.
The restoration concludes Florence's year celebrating the 500th anniversary
of Lorenzo the Magnificent's death. The bulk of the restoration work costing
over lire 1bn was financed by Banca Toscana. Given the tiny size of the
chapel, the public will be limited to 15 at a time.

The Financial Times


London Page XVI

921219

