FT921-374

FT  30 MAR 92 / Election 1992: Surge in Lib Dem support foreseen


   By ROGER MATTHEWS


THE INCREASE in support for the Liberal Democrats recorded in the weekend
opinion polls was being noted on the doorsteps in several marginal
north-west constituencies earlier last week.
It was particularly prevalent among former Tory supporters and appeared to
have been boosted by the row over Labour's broadcast on the National Health
Service.
The switch in voting intentions was said to be in reaction to the depth of
the recession and what is perceived as the extremes of the two main parties.
These voters see nothing wrong with the idea of politicians being forced to
work together in a hung parliament.
In Pendle, Hyndburn, the two Bolton seats, Bury and Davyhulme, it was
difficult to find people who had voted Conservative in 1987 ready to admit
that they would switch to Labour. Their chosen halfway house was Liberal
Democrat - in a few cases because of the positive aspects of that party's
policies, but more often due to unwillingness to identify with either Labour
or Conservative.
The area was already fertile ground. One of the most commonly heard
arguments in urban north-west constituencies is that all the parties should
work together for the greater good. In Scotland an opinion poll by Mori for
the Sunday Times confirmed Labour's strong lead, putting it on 42 per cent
(down one point from a week ago). The Scottish National party was on 27 per
cent (unchanged), the Conservatives on 20 per cent (unchanged) and the
Liberal Democrats on 10 per cent (up one point). The findings are roughly in
line with other Scottish opinion polls, except that Mori puts the Tories two
points lower than other polls last week.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

920330

