FT923-10917

FT  28 JUL 92 / International Company News: Catastrophe claims depress
Safeco results


   By NIKKI TAIT


   NEW YORK


HEAVY catastrophe claims depressed second-quarter earnings at Safeco, the US
property and casualty insurer. The company made an after-tax profit of
Dollars 42.1m in the three months to end-June, compared with Dollars 51.2m a
year earlier.
The figure was achieved on revenues of Dollars 869.7m against Dollars 859.6m
last time, and profits before realised gains fell from Dollars 50.9m to
Dollars 30.4m. Realised investment gains contributed Dollars 11.8m, compared
with Dollars 264,000. Despite the second quarter fall, however, Safeco is
still showing higher profits for the first six months of the year, at
Dollars 127.2m after tax, compared with Dollars 106.5m.
Hailstorms, earthquakes, riots and the need to increase reserves for claims
after the Oakland fire disaster cost the group Dollars 80m in the second
quarter, and led to a Dollars 73m underwriting loss. Mr Roger Eigsti, chief
executive, said: 'Homeowners, the line of business most affected by the
catastrophes and weather, posted underwriting losses of Dollars 58.3m for
the second quarter, and Dollars 61.1m for the first six months.'
These problem areas were partially offset by improved car insurance results.
Personal car insurance posted an Dollars 8.5m underwriting profit for the
first six months, compared with a Dollars 21.9m loss a year ago. Alexander &
Alexander, the insurance broker, made after-tax profits of Dollars 16.9m in
the second quarter of 1992, up from Dollars 13.5m a year earlier. Profits
for the first half of 1992 now stand at Dollars 37.7m (Dollars 15.4m).

The Financial Times


London Page 21

920728

