FT923-10652

FT  29 JUL 92 / Print workers back collective dealing


   By DAVID GOODHART


STRONG preference for traditional collective bargaining in contrast with the
continental European system of works councils has been expressed by GPMU,
the print union, in a motion for this year's TUC Congress.
The motion also speaks out against European-level negotiations between the
European TUC and Unice, the European employers body. It says that if
European collective bargaining is developed, it should be done at sectoral
level.
Mr Tony Dubbins, union leader, said: 'We don't want to end up with the ETUC
or the TUC starting to assume a collective bargaining role on behalf of
print workers.'
The motion challenges the increasingly Europhile consensus of several larger
unions, such as the GMB general union, and of the TUC itself. A motion was
passed at last year's congress praising the continental model of statutory
employee consultation.
In spite of the union's assertion of 'traditional values' in industrial
relations - which is certain to fail at the congress - the union has been
developing a close working relationship with IG Druck, the German print
union. The links between the two unions are probably closer than the more
publicised alliance between the AEU engineering union and the German IG
Metall.
The union has also benefitted from an EC grant of Pounds 1.5m to the
European Graphical Federation, the European grouping of print unions, for of
seminars to examine the strategies of Europe's printing multinationals.
Observer, Page 17

The Financial Times


London Page 8

920729

