FT921-551

FT  28 MAR 92 / The Lex Column: Paribas


At least Paribas does not appear greatly exposed to Olympia & York. That is
small comfort, though, following yesterday's pessimistic warning from
chairman Andre Levy-Lang that the French investment bank's provisions will
be hefty again in 1992. The damage this time, in large part due to worries
about the French and UK property markets, will not be on the scale of last
year's FFr9.5bn hit. That included FFr2.8bn of special provisions for the
Swiss unit, mainly to cover Maxwell and risky Swiss real estate loans. The 4
per cent slide in Paribas shares yesterday reflected disappointed hopes of a
meaningful fall in the underlying figure this year.
Since the apparent abandonment of the time-honoured French tradition of
income smoothing as part of the new management's clean-up campaign, the
Paribas numbers have become notoriously hard to predict. All indications
suggest that French loan demand is weak and competition for deposits will
intensify,though leasing and syndicated loan margins have started to look
healthier.
The key to the shares, on the other hand, will probably be the industrial
portfolio, notably Ciments Francais/Poliet which is strongly geared to a US
upturn. In retrospect, the cement restructuring move was rather unhappily
timed, though as with Suez the Paribas assets now have a more cyclical feel.
The question for long-term investors is whether they want to be in either
sprawling conglomerate, or whether they should leave the shares to traders
and build up their own portfolio.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

920328

