FT923-10728

FT  29 JUL 92 / International Company News: Bull registers FFr1.68bn loss on
high debt charges


   By WILLIAM DAWKINS


   PARIS


BULL, the French state-owned computer maker, yesterday reported a slightly
worse than expected FFr1.68bn (Dollars 336m) loss for the first half of the
year, burdened by high debt charges and the continued decline in its main
markets.
The loss compares with the FFr1.5bn forecast given by former chairman Mr
Francis Lorentz last month, half of which was financing charges. However,
this is a 13.4 per cent improvement on the FFr1.94bn net deficit in the same
period of 1991.
The operating loss decreased in the second quarter, for the sixth
consecutive three monthly period, said a Bull official. Operating losses
were FFr857m in the first six months of this year, a FFr435m improvement on
the FFr1.29bn operating loss in the first half of 1991. Sales fell by 9.2
per cent from FFr15.2bn to FFr13.8bn over the period.
Bull attributed the improvement to the reduction in costs through its
restructuring plan, under which it has announced a 20 per cent cut in its
workforce and the closure of seven of its 13 plants. It is on track to meet
its target of breaking even at the operating level by the end of this year,
said an official.
The company's interest charges are also likely to fall, thanks to a FFr4bn
injection of capital from the French government, recently approved by the
European Commission, to the irritation of the UK Government which believes
this will distort free competition.
The results place Bull roughly in the lower middle range of leading computer
companies' recent performance. Digital Equipment last week revealed a
first-quarter loss of Dollars 1.85bn, most of which was restructuring
charges, while IBM revealed disappointing profits, sending its share price
into a decline. Compaq, by contrast, reported a 43 per cent jump in
second-quarter earnings, after slashing its prices.

The Financial Times


London Page 25

920729

