FT923-9681

FT  04 AUG 92 / UK Company News: Bankers grant new standstill agreement to
Control Securities


   By MAGGIE URRY


CONTROL SECURITIES, the property, hotels, brewing and pubs group which is in
refinancing talks with its bankers, has come to a new standstill agreement
with them.
It also warned that its accounts would show substantial provisions against
assets and that results for the year to end March 1992 would be
'significantly worse' than for 1990-91. The new standstill agreement will
run until September 30. The original standstill was signed at the end of
June and was due to run out on July 24. It was then extended until the end
of July.
The aim of the standstill is to give the company time to put a business
strategy into place and to stabilise its financial position. Meanwhile, the
banks are providing facilities to allow the group to continue trading.
Control Securities was built up by Mr Nazmu Virani, who is facing charges of
fraud relating to the collapsed Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
Mr Virani stood down as chairman and chief executive after he was freed on
bail in April.
The group has delayed payment of interest on one of its two Swiss franc
bonds and is calling a meeting of bondholders of both its issues, totalling
SFr 200m (Pounds 78.8m), on August 17. Resolutions will be put to
bondholders to defer interest payments until October 12. Another meeting
will be held on or before that date.
The company said yesterday that results for the year to end March had not
been finalised but would be 'significantly worse than those for the previous
year'. Those showed a pre-tax loss of Pounds 3.3m, after a Pounds 3.8m
provision covering the company's exposure to BCCI. Also the accounts will
show 'substantial provisions against the values of the group's assets'.
Control's shares have been suspended since October at 16 1/2 p when the
Serious Fraud Office raided its offices in connection with BCCI
investigations.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920804

