FT922-482

FT  27 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Crude estimates at BP


BP shares settled comfortably yesterday at around 210p after their initial
14 per cent fall on Mr Robert Horton's resignation as chairman. That
stability could be deceptive. It represents little more than the balance of
widely varying guesses about the company's true dividend intentions. And
these will only be known when it reveals its half-year results in early
August.
BP might by then have decided on a radical course, and cut the dividend in
half. If so, the shares would need to fall further, perhaps to around 180p,
to produce an acceptable yield premium over Shell. Since cash is flowing out
of the company at a rate of maybe Pounds 1.5bn a year, the case for a savage
dividend cut is strong. Further risks for the share price include the
possibility that BP will at some stage launch a rights issue to help reduce
its 85 per cent gearing, and that US investors, who by all accounts were
great admirers of the Horton style, will take fright and sell.
BP has not, however, cut its dividend since the first world war. Even for Mr
David Simon, the new chief executive, any decision will be highly charged.
It is difficult to imagine him getting away without any cut at all. But the
prospect that cash will be less tight next year as capital spending falls
may point towards a compromise approach. BP would currently yield an
attractive 7 per cent if its dividend were cut by only one third.
This may help explain the market's present reluctance to see the shares fall
much further. There cannot be much bid premium. BP would still be an
expensive morsel for the likes of Hanson, and many of its most disposable
assets have already gone. Holders can still console themselves with a more
prosaic consideration. On a two-year earnings horizon, the shares now offer
value compared with Shell whatever their relative yield.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920627

