FT924-8283

FT  12 NOV 92 / Money Markets: Euromark futures fall


   By JAMES BLITZ


THE RECENT setback in short-dated Euromark futures continued yesterday after
the Bundesbank carried out a net drain of funds in its weekly money market
operations, writes James Blitz.
Elsewhere, however, markets were quiet. There was almost no change in cash
rates in the sterling money market on the eve of today's Autumn Statement.
The prevailing view is that a 1 percentage-point cut in base rate will be
signalled tomorrow.
The December Euromark futures contract fell 6 basis points to a close of
91.39 after the Bundesbank drained a net DM5.7bn of liquidity from the
German money market in its weekly repo operation. Most of the funds
allocated were at 8.75 per cent, unchanged from last week.
The net effect of these moves was to push call money up to 8.83 per cent
from around the 8.80 per cent seen on Tuesday evening. Three-month money
rose to 8.89 per cent from a previous close of around 8.85 per cent.
Movements in the short-dated Euromark contracts indicate how expectations of
an easing in official and market rates in Germany have been dampened in
recent weeks.
On October 27 the December Euromark contract closed higher at 91.80,
forecasting that three-month money would be at 8.2 per cent by the year-end.
The contract has fallen sharply since then, declining 6 basis points
yesterday to close at 91.39. At this level the contract prices three-month
money at 8.61 per cent, less than 30 basis points below its current level.
However, yesterday's closing price still assumes that there will be a cut in
the discount rate, currently at 8.25 per cent, before the new year. The
Bundesbank is believed to assume that there should be a margin of around 50
basis points between the lower posted rate floor and the level of market
rates.
The Bank of England forecast a small shortage of only Pounds 450m at the
start of its operations yesterday, and the overnight rate of lending peaked
at 11 per cent. Three-month money again ended at around 7 per cent.
December short sterling dipped 5 basis points to a close of 93.52. The gap
between the December and March contracts has widened recently to 70 basis
points, reflecting the belief that there will be more rate cuts in the
spring.

The Financial Times


London Page 37

921112

