FT924-6143

FT  23 NOV 92 / UK Company News: Disposals substantially erode Ldn &
Metropolitan losses


   By VANESSA HOULDER, Property Correspondent


LONDON & Metropolitan, a troubled property company, has reduced its pre-tax
losses from Pounds 14.96m to Pounds 4.44m for the six months to June 30.
L&M, which reported pre-tax losses of Pounds 100.3m in 1990 and Pounds 26m
in 1991, underwent a financial restructuring in March 1991. This summer its
banks extended their loans and working capital facilities until June 1993.
Its latest accounts, which revealed a negative net worth of Pounds 44m, were
qualified by its auditors, Touche Ross. They were prepared on a going
concern basis which was dependent on the group's ability to meet working
capital projections in the UK and to secure a refinancing of leisure
development in the South of France.
In the half year there was an operating profit of Pounds 2.35m, compared
with a loss of Pounds 10.5m. The company said the improvement will not be
representative of the full year, since it does not anticipate any large
disposals.
The results benefited from the completion of the sale of part of a site in
Reigate to Safeway. The company also sold three office buildings in
Manchester to an Enterprise Zone Investment Trust for Pounds 4.1m and a
51,000 sq ft Chancery Chambers city centre office site to an overseas
investor.
Further, unspecified provisions were made against the carrying value of
other properties in the portfolio.
Losses per share fell from 26p to 6.8p.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

921123

