FT924-946

FT  21 DEC 92 / The Lex Column: UK Electricity


National Power and PowerGen may view last week's report from the regulator
on electricity pool prices as something of a victory. But after a torrid few
weeks at the hands of both the regulator and the market, they have reason to
be grateful for small mercies. That Professor Littlechild stopped short of
suggesting collusion to achieve higher prices is a relief. The conclusion
that pool prices are still below the level required to cover the generators'
costs should equally take the wind out of complaints from big energy users.
Yet the generators can hardly welcome the regulator's pointed reminder that
they have too much market power. Although National Power and PowerGen have
been cleared of actual misdemeanour, the jury is still out on the wider
issue of whether enough competition can be introduced into the generation
market to make the current structure acceptable. The decision turns on the
impact of independent power producers in limiting the power of the duopoly.
That extends beyond the electricity pool. The terms of five-year contracts
offered to the regional electricity companies and backed by deals with
British Coal are already under Professor Littlechild's microscope. Given the
public and political interest, one can hardly believe National Power and
PowerGen will allow themselves to be found guilty of abusing market power in
this area either. But with the Professor talking of imposing regulation on
the generators as an alternative to a Monopolies and Mergers Commission
reference, the scope for interference has barely diminished.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

921221

