FT921-12065

FT  29 JAN 92 / UK News (Employment): Tecs' value for money to be probed


   By LISA WOOD, Labour Staff


CHAIRMEN of Training and Enterprise Councils are to carry out a
value-for-money review of all training programmes administered by the 82
Tecs.
The review was suggested by members of G10, the committee which represents
Tec chairmen, at a meeting yesterday with Mr Michael Howard, the employment
secretary.
The appraisal was agreed during discussions on budgets for Tecs in 1992-93.
Chief executives of Tecs had asked their chairmen to raise concerns over the
budget proposals, which include more training for about the same amount of
money as last year. Some Tecs have said this meant they could not meet the
government's guarantee of a training place to all young people who wanted
one.
Mr Eric Dancer, chairman of G10, said that Tecs had come on stream at
different times and were at different stages of development.
Tecs have complained that their Business Plans - which cover areas such as
help to small businesses - cannot be met because of government negotiators
concentrating on training in their financial allocations. Mr Dancer said it
had been agreed that Business Plans should be important elements in funding
negotiations.
Mr Howard said that in future operating surpluses made on Tec programmes
could be used for any purpose in the Business Plan, and that 10 per cent of
the total Tec budget would be an acceptable level of surplus.
The Department of Employment yesterday launched a series of measures
designed to ease arrangements between Tecs and national providers of
training who deal with different Tecs. Several national providers have
pulled out of Youth Training because they said it was too difficult to
negotiate with many Tecs.

The Financial Times


London Page 9

920129

