FT924-7992

FT  13 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: Boots


The market has a habit of treating Boots uncharitably. Yesterday's 2 per
cent fall in the shares in response to a 15 per cent rise in interim profits
was less dramatic than what followed the full year results in June. But
Boots could be forgiven for feeling hard done by, given its progress in
tackling some of the poorer performing parts of the retail empire.
Halfords' return to profit against the background of a depressed car market
is particularly encouraging. Yet without a recovery in the housing market,
Boots will need all its retail skills to stem the losses at Do It All which
is fighting from a weak third place in a market shredded by discounting.
Even on the assumption that conditions get no worse, Boots will do well to
break even this year on non-chemist retail sales approaching Pounds 1bn. On
the upside, though, this implies plenty of scope for recovery when
conditions in the high street improve.
Boots continues to defy gravity by squeezing higher margins from the
chemists' business. Pharmaceuticals should return to profit growth next year
once the launch costs for Manoplax, its new heart drug, are out of the way.
Admittedly, Manoplax has yet to win approval from the US authorities, let
alone demonstrate a track record. But even a qualified approval should be
enough to offset lower growth from the rest of the drugs portfolio. It would
be a shame if Boots were weighed down too much by its defensive credentials
in a rising market.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

921113

