FT924-8124

FT  12 NOV 92 / Italy to reopen BNL Iraq loans case


   By ROBERT GRAHAM


   ROME


THE Italian Senate has decided to reopen an investigation into the case of
the Atlanta branch of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, the state-owned commercial
bank, which made almost Dollars 5bn worth of illegal loans to Iraq during
the 1980s.
The Senate's decision follows concern in parliament about the growing body
of evidence indicating that BNL's Atlanta branch could not have acted on its
own in providing the large amounts of credit that helped finance Iraq's war
machine.
On Monday in London, court proceedings collapsed against three executives of
Matrix Churchill, the UK engineering group, for illegally supplying
equipment to Iraq which had military uses after British government documents
showed that several ministries were aware of the true nature of the deal.
The aborted trial also heard evidence that Britain had shared its knowledge
about Matrix-Churchill exports to Iraq with other friendly governments.
Italian parliamentarians familiar with the BNL-Atlanta affair are convinced
such intelligence was passed on at least to 'sectors' of the Italian
government.
Matrix-Churchill's Ohio affiliate in the US is named in recent US court
documents as having had its Iraqi exports funded by BNL-Atlanta letters of
credit.
The terms of reference of the new Senate commission will be the same as
those of its predecessor; that is, to ascertain the extent to which Italian
companies had received finance and guarantees from BNL-Atlanta to fund Iraqi
weapon's purchases and the latter's illicit armaments programme.
The previous commission, wound up in April, reported that it had received
scant cooperation from the Italian and US authorities. It was also sceptical
about the US official view that the Atlanta branch, headed by Mr Christopher
Drogoul, was solely responsible for the loans.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

921112

