FT921-3658

FT  13 MAR 92 / The Lex Column: Legal & General


The Accounting Standards Board has come to Legal & General's rescue in the
nick of time. It was, at any rate, ASB deliberations on extraordinary and
exceptional items which justified booking profits above the line from the
transfer of L & G's unit linked business to the group's own life fund. The
happy result: a modest Pounds 11m pre-tax profit last year instead of a
thumping loss. The reshuffle no doubt makes excellent sense; it is worth
bearing in mind, though, that raising the payout 5 per cent might not have
been so easy without it.
Investors have to weigh up L & G's solid asset backing and prospective
income flow against the uncertainties of the trading outlook. There is no
doubt that the company wants to limit its exposure to general insurance,
which lost more in 1991 than year end UK shareholders' funds. But with the
UK life and pensions side apparently struggling to pick up new business, and
the company itself so agnostic about the timing of a general insurance
upturn, the strategy looks a little fragile for the moment. At least
mortgage guarantee losses look to be conservatively provided.
None of this is to say that the shares at 367p are expensive. On the
contrary, the Pounds 200m after tax increase in shareholders' interest in
the life fund suggests that they are trading on a 10-15 per cent discount to
net assets. There is room to quibble with some of the assumptions, but that
looks good value compared with those composites still trading at a premium.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920313

