FT921-15318

FT  10 JAN 92 / The Lex Column: EC airlines


On the face of it, yesterday's report that KLM's chairman is prepared to
sacrifice the airline's name in a deal with British Airways seems
extraordinary. The Dutch are perhaps less touchy about sovereignty than
their EC counterparts. But there is no clearer symbol of national pride than
a country's flag carrier, and hence no greater obstacle to the sort of
cross-border industry rationalisation Europe so sorely needs.
It could be, of course, that Mr Bouw's remarks will simply raise hackles
back home and scupper negotiations. But on the assumption that a two-way
tie-up is now much more likely than the much-hyped grouping with Belgium's
Sabena ever was, the question is what the Brussels competition authorities
will make of it. There is, after all, a widespread perception that a merger
bringing together the two private sector heavyweights would ultimately be
blocked.
In fact, it is hard to see why. Any deal would come under exhaustive
scrutiny from the EC and almost certainly provoke hostility from French and
German lobbies. But while the EC's airline policy may sometimes seem
muddled, it has always recognised that further concentration in a global
market place is finally inevitable. A combined BA and KLM, for instance,
would still be smaller than the three big American carriers. No doubt
changes would be required to stop individual route monopolies and smooth the
way for new entrants. But it is worth remembering that London-Amsterdam is
one of the best served routes; nor is competition exactly lacking on the
North Atlantic. While US experience suggests that cost savings from a merger
are as likely to go into lower fares as into shareholders' pockets, the
numbers are impressive - perhaps Pounds 200m for BA alone.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920110

