FT924-12113

FT  22 OCT 92 / The Lex Column: Major's rocky road


The prime minister's desire to encourage greater private sector financing of
UK infrastructure projects provides an intriguing twist to the new economic
agenda. Combined with the prospect of still lower interest rates by
Christmas, the idea yesterday helped put new life into the beleaguered
building sectors.
The appeal for investors lies in the potential boost to demand at a time
when public spending on roads - notwithstanding Mr Major's vague promises -
is in danger of being pruned to restrain the PSBR. It would be unwise,
though, to get carried away. There is certainly a case for further relaxing
the so-called Ryrie rules, which have effectively allowed Whitehall to
exclude private sector participation on a simple cost of capital argument.
By taking into account other factors, such as risks associated with other
construction costs and future revenue streams, projects such as the Dartford
crossing and the Birmingham north relief road have already been put into
private hands. The trouble is that the treasury remains a deeply reluctant
convert. Suspicion that private operators will milk the public purse remains
ingrained - as demonstrated by the unexciting returns Trafalgar House is
allowed on the Dartford crossing and by refusal to proceed with the Channel
tunnel rail link.
Even if the government loosens up its act, one wonders if the UK's
financially stretched contractors can respond. The banks already have a
greater balance sheet exposure than they care to admit. And there is likely
to be a lengthy lead time while routes are planned and environmental issues
resolved. Investors should not forget that 70 per cent of construction
output is still dependent on private housing and commercial property.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

921022

