FT922-7208

FT  20 MAY 92 / Pro-Beijing party formed in HK


   By SIMON DAVIES


   HONG KONG


A NEW dimension was added to Hong Kong politics yesterday with the formation
of a pro-Beijing party, the Democratic Alliance for Betterment of Hong Kong.
The party, which is headed by Mr Tam Yiu-chung, a vocal left-wing
legislative councillor, has been funded by pro-Beijing and mainland Chinese
companies. But a spokesman was adamant the party is 'in no way controlled by
China'.
Other politicians were less convinced but considered it a positive
development that pro-China interests were coming out into the political
forum, 'rather than just pulling strings in the background'.
Mr Tam, who is vice-chairman of the pro-Beijing Federation of Trade Unions,
said the group was strongly committed to the reintegration of Hong Kong with
China, but it also supported the principle of 'Hong Kong people governing
Hong Kong'.
One of the ultimate stated objectives of the organisation is 'the chief
executive and all members of the legislature being selected by popular
election', but there was some cynicism concerning the time-frame for such a
move.
Mr Lee Wing-tat, legislative councillor and spokesman for the United
Democratic party, described the claims of the new political group as 'just a
gesture'.
He said 'on general domestic policy they may have a free hand. But on
sensitive issues they will have to hear the voice of Beijing'. Under current
plans, only 20 seats, or one third of the Legislative Council, will be
directly elected in the 1995 elections.
The pro-Beijing lobby performed poorly in Hong Kong's first direct elections
in September 1991.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

920520

