FT924-6338

FT  21 NOV 92 / EC companies to shed 40,000 jobs


   By DAVID GOODHART and Our Foreign Staff


NEARLY 40,000 redundancies were announced throughout the European Community
this week, about a quarter of them in the UK. Britain has been leading the
upturn in EC-wide unemployment, which began in early 1991, and accounted for
more than 50 per cent of the increase in the year to August 1992.
Much worse is likely to come in Britain and the rest of the EC. Mr Henning
Christophersen, the EC economics commissioner, predicted that EC
unemployment would rise from its present rate of 9.6 per cent to 11 per cent
next year. That would be higher than in the last economic cycle when EC
unemployment peaked at 10.9 per cent in early 1986.
Compared with the early 1980s, the latest increase has been more gradual but
it started from a much higher base, with unemployment rising from a low of
8.4 per cent in 1990 compared with a low of 5.7 per cent in 1979. After
Britain, this week's heaviest job losses were recorded in Germany.
Daimler-Benz confirmed a cut of 40,000 in total by the end of 1994, most of
which had already been announced, BASF announced another 2,000 jobs to go,
Audi about 3,500. Separately, post office workers warned that 30,000 to
40,000 jobs are threatened by rationalisation plans.
In the Netherlands, as in Germany, compulsory redundancies are rare and much
discussion this week has centred on whether to freeze wage rises in order to
secure jobs. Philips, however, announced another 250 job losses and PTT
Telecom about 230.
In Italy, the impact of recession on employment continues to be cushioned by
complex labour legislation which makes cutting jobs costly for employers.
Fiat, the bellwether of industrial employment in the north, has 35,000
workers laid off until the end of the month because of falling car demand.
The main alarm this week has been over estimates by the three main union
confederations that the government's privatisation programme could cost
150,000 jobs.
In Portugal, which has the second lowest unemployment rate in the EC at 4.5
per cent, 1,300 workers are expected to take voluntary redundancy from
TAP-Air Portugal. In the Republic of Ireland, the EC country with the
highest rate at 18 per cent, virtually no redundancies were announced,
unusually. A general election campaign is under way and unemployment is a
key issue. Aer Lingus, the national airline, has put off a restructuring
announcement.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

921121

