FT922-13458

FT  11 APR 92 / The Lex Column: Privatisation


The huge leap by some of the privatised utilities yesterday - the
electricity package rose by 24 per cent - was less surprising than it
looked. Having fallen out of bed in the run-up to polling day, they were
simply moving back to their pre-election levels. It was slightly puzzling,
however, that water shares should have closed at their highest levels ever.
In theory, the market should simply have reverted to pricing the various
sectors according to the sure prospect of gradually tightening regulation.
In practice, that applied with unique rigour to British Gas, which barely
rose at all.
The extent of yesterday's gains in the water sector can be justified if
investors think the companies will have a materially better run against
their regulator under a Tory government than any other. The evidence for
that is scarcely conclusive.
It is also worth pointing out that the privatisation band-wagon is unlikely
ever to roll with its old momentum. In part, that is because candidates such
as the coal industry will be disposed of by trade sales. But the government
will doubtless also work on the assumption that small investors are now wise
to the risks of tight pricing and will be less inclined to fall for
marketing hype.
After all, the more recent privatisation shares were far from being
giveaways. Even after yesterday, shareholders in the Scottish electricity
companies are nursing paper losses, while shares in the two generators have
performed poorly relative to the market. Investors will also be slow to
forget the havoc wrought in water and electricity in the past few weeks.

The Financial Times


London Page 32

920411

