FT922-13366

FT  11 APR 92 / Election 1992: EC hopes for a more positive Major


   By ROBERT MAUTHNER, Diplomatic Editor


THE new British government will be faced with a series of important foreign
policy decisions, some of which have been delayed pending the outcome of the
general election.
Britain's European Community partners hope that the Conservatives' victory
will allow Mr John Major, the prime minister, to adopt a more positive
attitude towards European economic and monetary union than he displayed at
December's negotiations on the Maastricht Treaty. They do not, however,
expect him to alter his refusal to sign the treaty's social provisions.
EC governments expressed relief that the election produced a government with
a clear majority which would provide the Community with a steady hand on the
helm when the UK takes the EC presidency for a six-month period on July 1.
This is considered particularly important given the agenda which the EC has
to deal with during the latter half of this year. Not only are the member
countries striving to get the Maastricht Treaty ratified by the end of the
year, but member states must also complete their single market by January 1
and agree five-year budgetary provisions. In addition they must take
decisions on the enlargement of the community.
Mr Douglas Hurd is widely expected to retain his post as foreign secretary.
Among other urgent difficulties are the British contribution to the United
Nations peace-keeping force in Yugoslavia, measures to reverse Iraq's
decision to deploy anti-aircraft missiles in the protected area of northern
Iraq, and UN sanctions against Libya if Tripoli refuses to extradite two of
its nationals alleged to be responsible for the 1988 Lockerbie bombing.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

920411

