FT922-4497

FT  05 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Midland


There is something slightly odd about the timing of Midland's announcement
of the sale of Thomas Cook. The deal improves the value of the bank to a
bidder, especially since Pounds 200m represents a full price for the
business. That being so, one might have expected Midland to reveal the sale
before HSBC made its final offer this week. But then, the Hongkong Bank
directors on Midland's board presumably knew the terms of the deal in
advance. The disclosure will give HSBC further grounds for justifying its
increased bid to its own shareholders at their forthcoming extraordinary
meeting. Whether it will make Midland investors keener on HSBC is another
matter.
Maybe the timing is pure coincidence. Thomas Cook is not a core Midland
business. It might have been sold earlier but for the Gulf war. Now that its
profits are recovering, Midland has received an offer it cannot refuse.
But the sale is a reminder that Midland does retain the option of
independence. It adds Pounds 128m to distributable reserves, making
affordable an increase in the dividend to its pre-recession level of 18p.
That adds powerfully to the argument for investors sitting tight until the
competition authorities have ruled on the Lloyds proposal. If yesterday's 2
per cent rise in Midland shares really was in anticipation of a higher
indicated price from Lloyds today, the market must either believe that it
will be allowed to bid or that Hongkong Bank will then come back with an
even better offer.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920605

