FT922-4498

FT  05 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Blue Circle gets lucky


Blue Circle Industries' Pounds 240m rights issue yesterday underlines
London's appetite for paper if the story is right. The company, after all,
long ago showed its ambition to buy into home products in continental
Europe. It has now clinched a deal which will improve its earnings for at
least the next 12 to 18 months. And though the begging bowl is out for
Pounds 36m more than its immediate needs, the extra money has been carefully
marked down for further expansion.
This said, it was charitable of the market to mark BCI's shares up 3p at
247p. For one thing, investors cannot be absolutely sure that the Celsius
acquisition is all it is cracked up to be. An historic exit multiple of 12
seems attractive, to be sure, but there is room for caution about the
consistency of profitability of the French boiler and radiators business in
earlier years. More pertinently, perhaps, BCI has to prove that it can make
a decent return from the Pounds 700m of shareholders' money which has now
been invested in home products. Recent margin improvements suggest that
Potterton and Myson are starting to perform. But Blue Circle's record in
this area is littered with goodwill write-offs and reorganisation costs,
which is largely why net assets per share have slipped 18 per cent over the
last six years.
On more optimistic forecasts for next year the forward multiple of around 14
may not seem demanding. A 6 per cent yield also provides useful support. On
the other hand, while doubts remain about the quality of some of Blue
Circle's assets - and management's ability to generate satisfactory returns
 -it is not quite clear that the shares deserve their current rating.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920605

