FT922-562

FT  26 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: TSB


Since TSB's loan book fell by 4 per cent during the first six months of its
current financial year, one wonders why it is suddenly going to such great
lengths to attract new retail deposits. The emphasis on high yield retail
deposits has brought in an extra Pounds 1.4bn during the period, but the
bank admits that its lending margin has been squeezed and that this will
continue. Its claim that the price is worth paying to secure new customers
looks a touch dubious. So is its notion that aggressive competition for
retail deposits has become an issue for the industry as a whole.
There is a difference between paying interest on current accounts to keep
the deposit base stable and actively encouraging customers to switch to
higher yielding instruments, which is what TSB now seems to be doing. A
possible interpretation is that the bank is seeking new clients for its
insurance products. Life and pension premiums show some signs of stagnating.
But if that is the motive, the prospects of success seem uncertain at best.
If it is not, then it is hard to see how the strategy will enhance income
which ought to be TSB's overriding priority.
The pre-tax line may show a swing from loss of Pounds 150m to profit of
Pounds 92m between the first halves of last year and this, but only because
of the declining charge for bad and doubtful debts. Operating income is
barely changed. Until TSB can alter that its future looks pretty pedestrian,
even though Hill Samuel now appears to be through the worst.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

920626

