FT923-10996

FT  28 JUL 92 / Second suicide in Italian scandal


   By HAIG SIMONIAN


   MILAN


THE GROWING political corruption scandal in northern Italy has claimed its
second victim with the death yesterday of Mr Mario Majocchi, head of a
Como-based building group and deputy chairman of Italy's Builders'
Federation.
The death of Mr Majocchi, who was taken to hospital after shooting himself
in the head at home on Sunday, follows that last month of Mr Renato Amorese,
secretary of the Socialist party in Lodi, near Milan.
Mr Majocchi's motives remain obscure, unlike those of Mr Amorese, who left a
long letter. After being interviewed by Milanese magistrates on Friday, Mr
Majocchi, managing director of a company active in public sector contracting
in Lombardy, returned home apparently unperturbed.
The latest incident follows a shift of focus from politicians to
industrialists in the continuing investigation. Last Friday, police arrested
Mr Giancarlo Cozza, the 55-year-old chief executive of Fiat Ferroviaria
Savigliano, the railway equipment division of the Fiat group. His arrest,
and that of the owner of a local Iveco bus dealership, brought to 71 the
number of people now charged in connection with the widening investigations.
Mr Cozza, detained on suspicion of having paid bribes for contracts to
supply rolling stock to Milan's underground railway, is the second Fiat
executive to have been arrested in the affair. Earlier this year, police
arrested Mr Enzo Papi, chief executive of Fiat's Cogefar Impresit building
subsidiary, Italy's biggest building group. Mr Papi, who refused to give
evidence and eventually resigned from his job, was finally released.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

920728

