FT924-11511

FT  26 OCT 92 / Gaidar secures business backing


   By LEYLA BOULTON


   TOGLIATTI, RUSSIA


THE embattled Russian government of Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar yesterday
received desperately needed support from heads of the country's biggest
industrial enterprises in return for a promise to consult business leaders
when formulating government policy.
Mr Gaidar, accompanied by six senior cabinet ministers, told a meeting of 60
industrialists that he would today sign a decree establishing a council of
industrial leaders which would be consulted on elaborating government
policy.
A statement of support from the industrialists implicitly repudiated the
more aggressive stance taken by Mr Arkady Volsky, the head of a big
industrialists' lobby group who co-chairs the country's leading opposition
movement.
The meeting in Togliatti, the home of Lada cars and other large industrial
concerns, was part of a last-ditch government campaign to attract support
from industry.
The ministers announced concessions to placate some of the managers'
complaints.
From January profits ploughed back into capital investment will be free from
tax. In addition, parts and raw materials ordered before but delivered after
the imposition of new import taxes would be exempt from taxation. But Mr
Gaidar also appealed for managers to limit price increases and said a policy
of endless new credits from the government would lead nowhere.
He also announced that he enjoyed, at least for now, the full confidence of
President Boris Yeltsin, despite demands from a vociferous conservative
opposition for the removal of his reformist cabinet when the Russian
parliament convenes on December 1.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

921026

