FT921-14247

FT  16 JAN 92 / Court threat to bank secrecy


   By SIMON GRAY


   LUXEMBOURG


LUXEMBOURG bankers have breached the Grand Duchy's strict banking secrecy
legislation to avoid infringing laws aimed at preventing the laundering of
drug profits, according to the defendant in a money-laundering trial.
Lawyers believe the allegations by Mr Franklin Jurado, a Colombian accused
of recycling cocaine proceeds on behalf of the Cali drug cartel, could
undermine Luxembourg's hard-won reputation as a centre for private banking.
That reputation, partly founded on the country's tradition of banking
secrecy, was shaken last year when the Luxembourg-registered Bank of Credit
and Commerce Internation al (BCCI) collapsed following the discovery of
massive fraud.
Mr Jurado claims a number of Luxembourg banks contacted investigators to
voice their suspicions about his transactions. He has lodged a complaint
because under Luxembourg law banking secrecy can be lifted only once an
investigation has begun.
In the course of Mr Jurado's trial, an official of Credit Lyonnais, the
French bank, has admitted that he and members of the bank's audit department
met Luxembourg authorities in December 1989 to discuss their client's
activities. Mr Pierre Kohnen, the investigating officer, told the court that
'between seven and nine' Luxembourg banks volunteered information on Mr
Jurado's transactions, and said bankers often contacted detectives about
suspicious funds or transactions.
The allegations may arise partly from confusion about Luxembourg bankers'
legal rights and obligations. Legislation was introduced in July 1989 which
obliges banks to refuse suspect business.

The Financial Times


International Page 2

920116

