FT921-502

FT  28 MAR 92 / Weekend London: Jazzing it up in pub and club - Steamy
basements and top-shelf pizza joints


   By GARRY BOOTH


RONNIE Scott taps the end of his microphone and, feigning astonishment at
the sobriety of his audience, squints through the cigarette fug in the
direction of the sound desk: 'Is this f****** thing on?' Turning to the
hapless couple at the front table, he says, 'You should have been here last
night. A fellow rang to ask what time the first set started. I said, what
time can you get here?
'Somebody asked a waitress if she could change a Pounds 20 note the other
night. We made him a partner . . . ' The spiel, little changed in his 32
years of running London's premier jazz club, still raises a laugh and belies
the fact that the tenor-playing Ronnie packs them in six nights a week (he
stays closed on Sundays).
The Soho club stands at the centre of a colourful and varied jazz scene,
which extends from the West End into the nicotine-stained fabric of the
city's pubs via fringe clubs which scratch a precarious but exciting living
in the less-wealthy boroughs. Recession has bitten, but attendance at live
jazz has increased more significantly (by 17.8 per cent) than for any other
performing art form over the past four years in the UK, according to the
Arts Council.
It is a more or less useless fact, although borne out by the abundance of
hot and cool jazz which can be heard on any night of the week in
surroundings that vary from subterranean to post-modern. This month you
could have tracked the extraordinary harmonics of Tal Farlow, the
usually-reclusive American guitar legend, as he moved residencies from the
East End's Tenor Clef, to the beery back room of the Bull's Head in leafy
Barnes, south-west London, via Soho's low-key Pizza Express.
Bass man Peter Ind's Tenor Clef is the sedate room above his steamy basement
Bass Clef club and restaurant. Jammed between bombsites and grimy,
Dickensian warehouses, the East End location gives a speakeasy atmosphere to
a main room where the walls run wet with condensation on steamy salsa
nights.
Peter Boizot's pizza joints - the Express, down the stairs in Dean Street,
and the more top-shelf Pizza on the Park in Knightsbridge, near Harrods -
are strictly for the supper-club set and a knife and fork accompaniment
prevails. The Bull's Head, a regulars' pub, mixes Young's ale with modern,
mainstream sounds every night in its back room. It is worth the long journey
west to watch elderly, middle-class beatniks hunched and shaking over their
pints.
To the north in NW1, stranded amid the heaps of down-and-outs from Europe's
biggest doss house, is the financially-beleaguered Camden Jazz Cafe. As
Farlow was making his way across town, the Cafe was playing post-modernist
host to the abstract tenor of Pharoah Sanders. By the river, on the bunker
walls of the South Bank complex, posters for the shiny techno-fusion of
Chick Corea, the most famous acolyte of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard,
vied for attention with the Nordic blandishments of Jan Garbarek's soprano.
But if London is on the circuit for the big names of jazz, it also home to
inter-connected local scenes fed by home-grown talent and fuelled with beer.
EMI's famous Blue Note label has recognised the London effect and tomorrow
night showcases six of the country's most promising young musicians at the
Camden Jazz Festival. The original compositions, which be premiered in the
Technics-sponsored event at the Bloomsbury Theatre, will be recorded.
Featured Londoners Tony Remy (guitar), Michael and Mark Mondesir (bass and
drums) and Orphy Robinson (vibes) are easy to catch on the club and pub
scene - and that scene is not hard to find. Take Stoke Newington, a
superficially unremarkable part of north-east London inhabited by Turks,
West Indians, Orthodox Jews, 'meeja' bohemians and jazz musicians.
A walk from our house to the High Street will take you past one, then
another, saxophone running through scales in competition with the rolling
thunder of reggae bass lines. Across the main road, by the mosque, is a
Victorian pub called Rumours where the upstairs sash windows rattle to the
avant-garde sound of Howard Riley's piano and Elton Dean's squealing sax.
Beyond, in Church Street, is the Vortex Jazz Bar, an artists' supply shop
with an airy, whitewashed loft open five nights a week to all schools of
jazz, from a John Etheridge duo to the Stan Tracey octet. Take a left to
Newington Green and, by the China Inland Mission, is the Latin Jazz Cafe,
forerunner to the Camden club. A little further along is the Weaver's Arms,
a friendly pub which resonates to the accordion-led strains of zydeco -
swamp music - which has become an incongruous but important part of the
London blues scene.
A similar trail of pub and club can be followed into Islington, and on to
neighbouring Camden and Kentish Town. Across the river, too. All are safe
and none has complex rules over cover charges: you pay to get in and then
buy as few drinks as you like (unlike New York, where the Blue Note club
often kicks out the punters between sets; or Paris, where only an actuary
could fathom the relation between cover charges and drink prices).
The London scene does not, of course, stand up to close comparison with New
York; it does not have the history. But only in London could you find such a
great US brass man as Art Farmer in a school hall (at University College
School in Hampstead) where tea and sandwiches were served by the boys at
half-time.
Live music in London is not as exotic as Paris where different musical
cultures have happily collided since the war. But only in London will you
find Ronnie Scott telling pre-war jokes in a cod-Japanese accent, or
assuring diners that the chef's rash has cleared up.
Bass Clef, 35 Coronet St, London N1; The Bull's Head, Lonsdale Rd, Barnes,
SW13; Jazz Cafe, 5 Parkway, NW1; Pizza Express, 10 Dean Street, W1; Pizza on
the Park, 11 Knightsbridge, SW1; Ronnie Scott's, 47 Frith St, W1; Vortex
Jazz Bar, 139 Stoke Newington Church St, N16; The Weaver's Arms, 98
Newington Green Rd, N1.

The Financial Times


London Page XVII

920328

