FT923-9881

FT  03 AUG 92 / Further setback for Collor as aide quits


   By CHRISTINA LAMB


   RIO DE JANEIRO


THE spokesman of beleaguered Brazilian President Fernando Collor has quit,
the latest blow to a man who is facing serious corruption allegations.
Although the reason for leaving was described as 'purely professional' - a
dispute over the spending of government publicity money - the resignation of
Mr Pedro Luis Rodrigues is a further embarrassment to Mr Collor during the
current crisis.
In an interview with O Globo newspaper yesterday, Mr Ibsen Pinheiro, the
president of the Brazilian Congress, said he now considered the opening of
an impeachment process against Mr Collor 'inevitable'.
Mr Collor has been under fire for two months over his well-documented
financial ties to an allegedly corrupt businessman. In the event of
impeachment the president would be charged with the 'crime of
responsibility' and would need the support of one third of Congress in order
to survive.
The government is now concentrating its efforts on mustering the 168
congressional votes necessary to keep Mr Collor in place, through judicious
use of state money.
Despite the parlous state of the Brazilian budget, over the weekend the
economy minister announced extra finances for projects of the ministries of
transport and social action. After a battle between the ministers, the
political need to spend seems to be winning out over the economic need to
cut caused by a 10.4 per cent real drop in tax revenue in the first half of
this year and continued failure to meet the targets of its programme with
the IMF.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

920803

