FT921-15269

FT  11 JAN 92 / Letter: Scotland: a fitter engineering industry and
Ravenscraig as an asset in an independent nation (2)


   From Mr PATRICK KANE


Sir, James Buxton characterises my thinking about Ravenscraig as 'muddled
and romantic' ('Tory prospects in tatters', January 9). There would be no
muddle about the retention of Ravenscraig as a national asset if Scotland
were an independent EC member state - a high-polling voter preference among
Scots strangely absent from Mr Buxton's political assessment.
Your editorial of the same day ('Raven croaks at Motherwell') laments other
European nations' 'subventions' of their indigenous steel industries.
Perhaps the Twelve's lack of 'political will' to depoliticise competition
policy reveals the enduring character of the Community as a confederation of
national economic interests progressively pooled, rather than the abstract
supranational free-market so desired by City Europhiles. It is this
continuing influence of member states in European policy that a politics of
Scottish independence recognises, and which underlies the Scottish National
Party's argument for nationalisation of the steel industry as vital to
national interest in manufacturing.
There is no 'romance' either about the clear market opportunities for a
Scottish steel industry in North Sea oil fabrication over the next 'boom'
decade - a market factor which would also not escape 'politicisation' in the
event of a territorially-constituted Scottish state sovereignty, willing to
present oil and steel to the EC as essential Scottish interests. Patrick
Kane,
Hue and Cry,
St Clair Studios,
Glasgow G3

The Financial Times


London Page 7

920111

