FT923-15465

FT  02 JUL 92 / The Lex Column: Granada


At least one UK company yesterday had the market scurrying to upgrade its
forecasts for the current year. Granada's 49 per cent jump in interim
profits was not only better than expected. The result also strongly suggests
that the management broom of new chief executive Gerry Robinson is sweeping
quickly down to the bottom line.
The extent of the cost cutting - reflected in a 12 per cent increase at the
operating level despite minimal help from the economy - is a bit surprising
at this belated point in the cycle. But that is a question for Mr Robinson's
predecessors. The issue today is whether, after outperforming by 65 per cent
over the last 12 months, the shares may not now run out of steam. At 257p,
the forward earnings multiple is 16 to 17 times, a rating which obviously
allows for the additional cost savings next year but which also assumes the
company will be able to generate new areas of growth.
The mature rental and increasingly competitive television business hardly
seem the likeliest of candidates, which leaves leisure and computer
services. The latter division's turnaround has been textbook stuff - cutting
out head office overheads and weeding out the dud contracts - and margins of
10 per cent should be established by the year-end. Whether Granada really
can go on to attack manufacturers' share of the maintenance market is
another matter.
In retrospect, investors probably over-reacted to the internal shenanigans
and rights issue drama a year ago. Granada's businesses have proved to be
fundamentally sound, and a progressive payout assured. But the shares are
still taking a lot on trust.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

920702

