FT924-908

FT  21 DEC 92 / Foreign Exchange and Money Markets: Positions to close


   By PETER JOHN


WITH little but the Christmas holidays to focus on this week most traders
will be busily closing their positions. They will be looking forward to
taking their profits following a turbulent fourth quarter, writes Peter
John.
Pressure on the French franc is expected to abate for the remainder of the
year although many economists believe that recent selling merely reflected a
phoney war and the heavyweight strategic assaults will return in January.
There has been some criticism that the Bank of France has allowed the franc
to slide when, in a thin market, it could have supported it easily. However,
lessons have been learned from the UK's failure to support sterling and the
French central bank is determined not to throw good money after bad.
Instead, it has been conducting, along with the Bundesbank, a strong public
relations campaign combined with slight but consistent intervention and is
believed to be ready to use its muscle when the time is right. 'The debacle
of Black Wednesday showed the French that timing is everything,' said one
economist.
In the UK, analysts are preparing to pick over the November trade figures
tomorrow. Mr Neil MacKinnon of Citibank expects the seasonally adjusted
visible trade gap to have widened to Pounds 1.3bn from Pounds 1.2bn in
October.
Elsewhere in Europe, pressure on the Irish punt and the Danish krone
continues. There is a feeling that, as Gordon Gekko would have said in the
film Wall Street, the punt is 'wreckable' while the krone will receive more
support.
The dollar has performed badly in spite of positive US economic news but
only because dealers have had long positions and NatWest Capital Markets
advises clients to look for buying opportunities against the D-Mark and Yen.

The Financial Times


London Page 31

921221

