FT924-837

FT  22 DEC 92 / Major intends to shake up public-service honours


   By RALPH ATKINS


ALTERNATIVE public-service medals are being considered as part of Mr John
Major's review of how the official honours system can better reflect merit
rather than rank.
Downing Street said yesterday that the first results of the prime minister's
rethink of the system will be seen in the Queen's birthday honours next
summer.
Mr Major wants a move away from automatic awards for senior civil servants,
members of the diplomatic service and the military. He is drawing up
proposals in consultation with the monarch and with Sir Robin Butler, head
of the Home Civil Service.
Officials are playing down the prospects of sweeping changes, saying only
'modest' proposals for changes will be announced early next year as part of
a 'rolling review'. Downing Street said new honours might be introduced.
The new year honours list, to be announced next week, will not be affected.
Speaking on BBC radio, Mr Major said: 'I don't propose whole-scale dramatic
changes in the honours system. I think the honours system is a proper
reflection of merit within our society and I support it as such. What I
wish. . . is to make sure that it is brought up to date.'
In Whitehall, many awards for senior public servants are regarded as coming
with the job. A grade one civil servant - head of a government department -
can expect to become a Knight Commander of the Bath, a grade two or three
would expect a Companion of the Bath. A senior ambassador, meanwhile, might
expect to become a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St
George.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

921222

