FT922-4062

FT  08 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: EFA


At a time when Germany is agonising over whether to abandon the European
Fighter Aircraft, investors are bound to reflect on the position of the
companies supposed to be building it. In the unlikely event of the project's
being scrapped altogether, it is necessary to distinguish between aerospace
and electronics companies. For British Aerospace, the result would
undoubtedly be serious. As a supplier of both airframes and weapons, it
would find itself deprived of its future in combat aircraft. For GEC the
outcome might prove less damaging. The governments in the project have
already paid for the development of a large amount of sophisticated
electronic kit. Even if they backed away from building the EFA itself, they
would surely seek to deploy the gadgetry in existing aircraft. The same
should be partly true for Rolls-Royce as engine supplier.
But such an extreme case seems unlikely. By all accounts, the project would
be feasible if as few as 400 aircraft were built. If Germany and even Spain
pulled out, the UK and Italy could with luck make up the total with the help
of exports to such as Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. The dwindling of the
project to an Anglo-Italian alliance would be a blow to its status. But
since production will be allocated according to how much each country buys,
the UK's apparently firm intention to order 200 aircraft would give it a
larger share of a smaller project.
The argument within Germany may also belong within a broader political
context these days. The immediate savings from pulling out would be modest,
since Germany only ever meant to buy less than 20 aircraft this side of the
millennium. With the EC in turmoil after the Danish referendum, this is
hardly the time for Germany to make a highly publicised withdrawal from a
European agreement.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920608

