FT922-13465

FT  11 APR 92 / London Stock Exchange: Market celebrates with 132-point rise


   By STEVE THOMPSON


RED EYED and leaden footed from lack of sleep and nervous exhaustion,
London's equity market dealers trickled home highly satisfied after trading
throughout the night and day.
They witnessed and participated in the equity market's biggest single day
rise since the rally that followed the infamous Black Monday crash in
October 1987. The FT-SE 100 share index closed 136.2 higher at 2,572.6,
taking the index back to its pre-budget level.
The general election triumph of the Conservative Party, whilst not entirely
unexpected by many of London's investment community, nevertheless took a
number by surprise and was followed by a flood of buying of UK shares and
Government stocks.
The FT-SE 100 share index, electrified by intense domestic and overseas
buying interest during a frantic night's trading, climbed above 2,600 during
pre-market trading and before officially opening 132.2 higher at 2,568.6.
Although largely irrelevant to the day's trading, dealers also took note of
Wall Street's strong showing which in turn stimulated a big rally by the
Tokyo market.
At its best official level yesterday, shortly after Wall Street opened with
further good gains, the Footsie was over 150 points higher, having slipped
back to being 'only' 113 points up some two hours after trading commenced.
The morning brought a steady stream of institutional buying until around
10am when, in the words of one dealer, 'the UK institutions really got
going.' Turnover in equities reached a massive 1,345.4m shares, by far the
heaviest this year.
Market strategists were almost universally bullish of the post-election
market. Mr Mark Brown at UBS Phillips & Drew, said 'we have dusted off our
old Conservative target of 3,000 on the FT-SE at year-end; overseas money
looks to be coming back, boosting sterling, which in turn will help interest
rates to fall. Mr Bob Semple at County said 'the market looks set to fly;
'helped by a recovery in the economy and with interest rates set to fall it
has all the ingredients for our second-half target of 3,000. Mr Richard
Kersley at BZW is sticking with a year-end target of 2,750 and cautions on
the probability of rights issues. Strauss Turnbull's Mr Ian Harnett sees a
10 per cent rise in the market to the year end, while Mr Mark Howdle at JP
Morgan said the Conservative victory will trigger a major equity rerating;
2,650-2,700 looks realistic.
Retail business in equities picked up strongly as investors, scenting a Tory
election win piled into equities, particularly the utilities.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

920411

