FT923-15492

FT  02 JUL 92 / Rabin sets out to woo the hard right


   By HUGH CARNEGY


   JERUSALEM


MR Yitzhak Rabin, prime minister-elect, yesterday hopped smartly onto
Israel's political fence as he tried to draw both left-wing and hard-right
groups into coalition with his Labour party following its election success a
week ago.
Mr Rabin, awaiting today's official call from President Chaim Herzog to form
a government, is embroiled in coalition manoeuvres only slightly less
byzantine than usual in Israel, despite his clear election victory over the
Likud party of Mr Yitzhak Shamir.
Yesterday he infuriated Meretz, a pro-peace party regarded as Labour's main
coalition partner, by drawing up draft administration guidelines containing
only bland commitments to Middle East peace talks and omitting reference to
a freeze on Jewish settlements in the occupied territories.
Labour deliberately fudged the guidelines, which serve as a manifesto for
the government, in an effort to entice Tzomet, a party of the extreme right,
into the coalition. Until recently Tzomet was in coalition with the hardline
Likud.
This apparently perverse move is explained by two factors. First, Mr Rabin
is anxious to consolidate his fragile parliamentary majority, minimise the
influence of religious parties and defuse right-wing protests against his
policy on the peace process. Secondly, Tzomet is desperate not to be left in
opposition after quadrupling its number of MPs from two to eight in the
election.
Neither Labour nor Tzomet is pretending that they do not have deep
differences - notably Tzomet's rejection of any territorial compromise or
freeze on settlements. Tzomet is even further removed from Meretz and
yesterday met the three religious parties to discuss ways of keeping it out
of the government.
Labour insists Mr Rabin's commitment to the peace process and a curb on
settlements will not be compromised.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

920702

