FT922-4061

FT  08 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Water sector


Last week's deal on capital spending between Ofwat and North West Water was
at first sight unremarkable. North West came up with Pounds 360m of extra
spending to compensate for earlier under-estimates. The regulator has
allowed the company a real return of 7 per cent on the new capital, but
stipulated that customers must not suffer price rises higher than those
allowed for at privatisation three years ago.
On further examination, the arrangement looks distinctly curious. North
West's capital spending forecast in the 1989 prospectus was Pounds 2.2bn, so
the error was material even if one assumes the government was applying
downward pressure ahead of the flotation. The extra money will be spent
mainly on computers and information systems and rationalising buildings and
staff, improvements which the rest of the sector is managing largely within
the agreed budgets.
One of the axioms of privatisation was that companies should be exposed to
the discipline of the market. If North West's management got its capital
needs wrong, it is for the company and its shareholders to bear the
consequences. Instead, the regulator has offered them a novel form of
protection, on the apparent grounds that customers would otherwise suffer.
At the least, Ofwat might have found a less drastic way of encouraging North
West to improve its services.
Further, in principle the regulator should only condone significant extra
spending where the law has changed - as with South West Water's deal last
year - or where efficiencies can be introduced more quickly because
commercial conditions have altered. It may be that Ofwat has been too
concerned to establish in North West a benchmark against which to measure
all water companies' performance. It could yet come to regret allowing it
such favourable treatment.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

920608

