FT923-6361

FT  25 AUG 92 / The Lex Column: Down with the dollar


Everyone agrees that the dollar looks attractive on the basis of relative
purchasing power parities. Just about everyone also agrees, though, that in
the short term at least such measures are meaningless. As the US currency
dipped below DM1.40 for the first time yesterday, the fear for financial
markets and for the authorities on both sides of the Atlantic was that the
recent slide could all too easily turn into a free fall. On the evidence of
yesterday's half-hearted intervention, central bankers do not yet appear to
have the stomach for a fight. The combination of election year pressures in
the US and the Bundesbank's intransigence, moreover, means that any
immediate narrowing of the short term interest rate differential looks
highly unlikely.
The message was not lost on European equity markets yesterday, which fell 3
per cent as measured by the Eurotrack index of 100 leading companies. In
part the bearish mood reflects the dollar's commentary on the US economy,
and its impact on the already much downgraded earnings of Europe's big
chemical and pharmaceutical companies. The dollar's demise, however, also
exacerbates tensions within the ERM  - witness yesterday's French franc and
lira weakness  - further postponing the day when interest rates generally
can resume a downward path.
Given that a rise in UK rates remains in the balance, perhaps yesterday's
mere 2 per cent fall in the Footsie could be considered something of an
escape. Whereas last year's disappointment over UK corporate earnings growth
was compensated for by monetary easing, the market acknowledges that this
escape route seems to be firmly closed for the moment.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

920825

