FT924-6163

FT  23 NOV 92 / The Lex Column: ICI


The 'Z' in Zeneca - as ICI's bioscience side was christened last week - is
the alchemists' symbol for solution. But it will take more than hocus-pocus
to get bulk chemicals in a fit state to stand alone next year. If nine-month
results from BASF and Hoechst are anything to go by, petrochemicals markets
have deteriorated since the end of ICI's third quarter. Even allowing for a
peculiarly German perspective on the cycle, there seems to be little hope of
an upturn much before the end of 1993.
True, ICI will benefit from sterling's devaluation; overseas profits will be
flattered on translation. More importantly, it will earn a higher margin on
chemicals exported from the UK. Some of that advantage will be lost, though,
if continental Europe slides into recession. The translation effect on
earnings, moreover, does not make any more cash available to pay the
dividend. On a conservative assumption the demerged chemicals business would
have to bear a little under half of ICI's Pounds 400m dividend bill next
year.
ICI is less dependent on commodity chemicals than last time around the
cycle. The recent asset swap with Du Pont, for example, leaves it well
positioned in acrylics. Some cash might also come from disposals next year,
the polypropylene business being an obvious candidate. But given the regular
capital expenditure demands of petrochemicals - and the deeply uncertain
outlook - ICI can hardly float the chemicals business while its depends on
divestments to keep in shape. It might always be tempted to push more of the
dividend on to Zeneca, but reducing dividend cover on the other side of the
business will hardly pave the way for a rights issue.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

921123

