FT922-4495

FT  05 JUN 92 / The Lex Column: Anglian Water


Judging by yesterday's 10.3 per cent dividend increase, Anglian Water has
grown tired of its reputation for caution. The payout raises the question of
what water companies should do with unforeseen profits. Anglian's dividend
reflects inflation and a real increase agreed with the regulator at the time
of privatisation. In addition, it contains an unexpected element of reward
to shareholders for efficiency gains, the remaining benefits of which will
be passed on to customers as a voluntary 0.5 per cent reduction in Anglian's
permitted price increases.
Admittedly, customers probably get a greater share of the spoils, and
Anglian has been refreshingly open as to how it did its sums. The problem is
that other water companies might dispute its reasoning, not least the use of
a rather high 4.7 per cent average annual inflation rate, against the more
widely used 4 per cent inflation figure for March. Adjust for that, and
shareholders have done rather better than it appears. In marking its shares
to a new high, the market was not slow to appreciate Anglian's generosity.
More generally, it is perhaps worth asking why water companies should do
anything at all to boost dividends at a time when they are already able to
pay real increases far ahead of the market average. Arguably, it would be
better to reinvest extra cash in the hope that it will be earning a
distributable return when conditions are rather less favourable. Water is,
after all, a long-term business.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

920605

