FT934-11793

FT  29 OCT 93 / The Lex Column: Ferranti


GEC's offer of between Pounds 110m and Pounds 150m for Ferranti seems to be
pitched at a level which allows it to acquire the business with a minimum of
fuss. Whether the bid is priced correctly is more uncertain. Arguably, GEC
could have picked up the pieces of Ferranti from the receiver for far less
than the nominal Pounds 10m being paid to shareholders and the assumption of
Ferranti's debts. Against that, GEC argues that many things can go wrong
once the undertakers are called in and the body starts to decompose. Yet it
seems improbable that Ferranti's business is worth almost exactly the value
of its outstanding debts. Perhaps GEC's judgment is that it can squeeze more
from the corpse and do the Ministry of Defence a favour at the same time.
That should leave the banks offering thanks in the general direction of Lord
Weinstock, who has relieved them of a sticky position and, in all
probability, a messy insolvency. GEC's preparedness to take the banks out at
face value may prompt shareholders to feel that there is more in it for
them. If so, they are probably mistaken, as Ferranti's chairman, Eugene
Anderson, was at pains to point out yesterday.
Given that GEC has made its offer conditional on obtaining 90 per cent
acceptances, disgruntled shareholders could frustrate the plan. But unlike
equally contentious offers such as Amstrad or Greycoat, the alternative for
Ferranti probably is immediate receivership. The offer is a poor reward for
the rights money and loyalty offered to a company whose track record
scarcely deserved it.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

931029

