FT933-12538

FT  23 JUL 93 / The Lex Column: Volkswagen


Given the welter of publicity surrounding the industrial espionage row
between Volkswagen and GM, it is surprising that the former's shares have
fallen less than 7 per cent since their 1993 peak earlier this month. The
reason may be that, as with the clash between British Airways and Virgin in
the UK, the implications for the company are less than meets the eye. Mr
Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua has acquired a legendary reputation in the
motor industry, but GM's share price quickly recovered from the shock of his
defection in March. It is far from clear whether his tenure at VW will be
unnaturally short, but the effect may be equally transitory if the worst
does come to the worst.
VW's labour-shedding programme was in place before Mr Lopez arrived with a
brief to cut component costs. His appointment was a final admission on VW's
part that radical action was needed. Mr Lopez has not been there long, but
he will have had sufficient time to indicate to his new employers how much
saving to expect and how it can be achieved. It matters less who now
actually implements a programme similar to that already carried out by other
large motor companies.
The greater risk to VW is that, in promising to return to the black next
year, it may have underestimated the downturn in the European car market. If
it is protracted, producers may have to contend with price falls as well as
lower volumes. That would cancel out some of the cost savings VW is now
starting to generate.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930723

