FT932-3264

FT  15 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: East Midlands Electricity


Deciding to borrow Pounds 150m at an interest rate of 12 per cent near the
top of the interest rate cycle looks pretty rum, even without the benefit of
hindsight. Doubly so when the Eurobond in question now accounts for more
than East Midlands' total net debt and the company is locked into the deal
for 25 years. Sadly, the financing decision is typical of East Midlands'
accident-prone progress outside its mainstream electricity business - most
notably in the poorly performing contracting and retailing operations. It
must be some relief to shareholders that prospects in coal mining are now so
poor that East Midlands has all but abandoned its ambitions there.
The basic electricity business is a gift which the most inept management
would find difficult to destroy. But regulatory reviews will squeeze
returns. Supply generates little profit, so Offer's current review should
not dent share prices. The subsequent distribution review is more important.
Attempts to massage profits down by retaining costs are unlikely to fool
Offer, so East Midlands' decision to cut now looks sensible. Still, even if
the average regional electricity company's price cap is tightened from
RPI+1.5 to RPI-6, the RECs generally could still probably manage annual
dividend increases of 8 per cent between 1995 and 2000. Much of that,
however, would be at the expense of dividend cover. Fund managers may be
nervous about shrinking mainstream earnings when quality diversification
profits have proved so hard to come by.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930615

