FT933-10192

FT  05 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: GKN


Perhaps surprisingly, GKN's barely-covered dividend is regarded by many as
watertight protection from the world recession. But then, glancing round at
other uncovered - and rudderless - UK engineering companies, one takes the
point. Life in the automotive components sector will continue to be tough,
with European car output likely to be down by 15 per cent this year, and
1994 unlikely to be much better. Unlike others, at least GKN has managed to
keep a grip on costs and maintain profits.
Admittedly, GKN has been helped out by better performances in the UK and
North America, and the devaluation of sterling has flattered profits by
around 11 per cent. Then again, underlying cash flow is strong and being
invested in new plant. The company is also struggling manfully with adverse
operational gearing which can be expected to boost profits once the market
turns. In local currency terms, continental European turnover fell by 15 per
cent, but profits are down by 55 per cent.
To some extent, that recovery prospect may sooth the nerves of those who
fret about GKN's 60 per cent premium to the market. There may also be growth
if GKN can continue to pick up market share, more US light trucks start to
use front-wheel drive and the Kuwaiti order for Warrior vehicles finally
materialises. The shares' 5.25 per cent yield is unlikely to be fattened by
anything as bizarre as a dividend increase. Yet at least it offers a warm
place to wait for recovery.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

930805

