FT934-8760

FT  13 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Firm base for rates


Before yesterday afternoon's better economic news from the US, London was
whipping itself up into a lather about the latest UK trade and manufacturing
output data. Third quarter output fell somewhat less than expected, thanks
partly to a revival of motor vehicle production. The trade figures must
still be unreliable; yet since they are all the government has to go on, it
is perhaps worth noting that they show exports to the European Union rising
despite the recession in continental Europe and some evidence of import
substitution at home. That does not support the case for lower base rates in
the Budget.
Of course, economic indicators are never going to lead the chancellor both
to cut interest rates and raise taxes. To a large extent Budget decisions on
interest rates must be about the appropriate mix of policy rather than a
knee-jerk reaction to the latest indicators. There is certainly an argument
for tax rises to curb public borrowing, offset by looser monetary policy. It
is by no means certain that the chancellor will agree. The easiest political
choice may be to do nothing much on tax or on monetary policy.
After all, there is not much clamour from around the constituencies for
lower interest rates; nor are corporate balance sheets under that much
strain. The stock market, which has been promising itself a cut, would be
disappointed if none emerged. Perversely, though, a steady monetary course
might actually be better for economic confidence. Precipitate rate cuts at
this stage in the cycle would do little to stimulate investment, if they set
business worrying about painful rises later.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931113

