FT932-6676

FT  27 MAY 93 / Letter: EBRD's role crucial, but review necessary


   From Mr L S DAVIES


Sir, The EBRD was established to 'foster the transition towards open-market
oriented economies and to promote private and entrepreneurial initiative in
the countries of central and eastern Europe'. Discussion on the merits of
its in-house expenditures should not be allowed to detract from the need to
review its performance towards achieving this objective.
A year ago this week, the European Commission hosted a conference designed
to review barriers to business investment in eastern Europe and to identify
solutions to the problems. Research had shown that more than one-third of
potential investors felt the risk/profitability were unacceptable. A further
20 per cent could not get finance. In this climate, the EBRD could clearly
play a useful role.
In practice, the bank's criteria for project approval mean it will find it
difficult to bridge the gap. Any project for eastern Europe will need to
bear a range of 'exceptional' costs for activities such as legal and
financial services and for management training, which are bound to reduce
its viability. If the bank fails to support these and continues to require
commercial viability, it will struggle to convert the 'commitments' to
'disbursements'.
What are desperately needed are projects such as the VW/Skoda venture in the
Czech Republic which, although they may not produce much profit in the
short-term, will certainly act as catalysts to move cash around the economy.
The EBRD could pump-prime these types of activity by redirecting some of its
planned in-house expenditures into supporting the aforementioned
'exceptional' costs.
L S Davies,
1 Pinfold Road,
Solihull, West Midlands

The Financial Times


London Page 22

930527

