FT933-10194

FT  05 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: Currencies


Since European governments are so reluctant to cut interest rates, one is
tempted to ask whether they are deliberately trying to keep their currencies
as close to the old ERM bands as possible. There is no evidence of any
private agreement to that effect on the sidelines of Sunday's meeting in
Brussels. But Belgium, Denmark and France retain considerable interest in
being identified with the core of stronger European currencies. Belgium has
intervened to heave its franc back within the old bands. Neither of the
other two would want to cut and run.
By moving to 15 per cent bands they have made made it easier to keep their
currencies under control. Speculation may offer less one-off spectacular
gains in what is effectively a free float, so less intervention is required.
High interest rates are penalising currency speculators, a factor which
clearly helped push the French franc up sharply over the past couple of
days. The authorities may simply be reeling in confusion. Like Britain after
it came out of the ERM, they have no policy target to replace the exchange
rate. The Major government waited nearly a full week after September 16
before it cut base rates to 9 per cent.
If continental governments are determined to live in the old world, though,
talk of US-style interest rates in Europe is certainly premature. The
premise on which recent equity market optimism was been based would be
revealed as false. But the authorities could simply be storing up trouble
for the future. Their natural instinct to shore up their currencies with
high interest rates risks preventing the right response when exchange
markets again begin to worry about high unemployment and recession.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

930805

