FT931-4159

FT  12 MAR 93 / 'Two-tier' fund market identified


   By NORMA COHEN, Investments Correspondent


A TWO-TIER market in fund management is emerging in the UK, with four
leading groups on average outperforming the rest of the industry, according
to Mr John Clamp, chief executive of Combined Actuarial Performance
Services, an organisation that measures the performance of pension funds.
The four leaders since 1988 have been Gartmore, Mercury Asset Management,
Phillips & Drew Fund Management and Schroders. At the same time these four
are taking the lion's share of funds being moved under the guidance of
consultants. Data show that they have significantly outperformed the median
return of all UK fund managers since 1988, Mr Clamp said.
The so-called Group of Four earned a total return on UK equities of 23.3 per
cent compared with the industry median of 22.4 per cent last year. The
industry overall outperformed the FT-A All Share Index by 1.8 per cent in
1992.
Between 1988 and 1992, the Group of Four earned an average return on UK
equities of 16 per cent against an industry average of 14.9 per cent.
'We have probably had a two-tiered market for the past two or three years,'
Mr Clamp said.
However, he thinks it unlikely that the same four groups will stay in the
top tier. He said that while some can outperform for a period of years, data
show that no group has been able to outperform consistently for a long time.
Explaining the outperformance last year, Mr Clamp noted that, on average,
fund managers had underperformed in earlier years and that on average over
the past 10 years, fund managers have exactly equalled the returns of the
FT-A index.

The Financial Times


London Page 8

930312

