FT934-11109

FT  02 NOV 93 / International Company News: Canadian Pacific result shows
continuing recovery


   By ROBERT GIBBENS


   MONTREAL


CANADIAN Pacific, the transport and resource group, continued its underlying
turnround in the third quarter but the results were dragged down by special
charges. The improvement is expected to continue, despite a slow Canadian
economy.
The fast-expanding PanCanadian Petroleum, 87 per cent-owned, and Fording
Coal, a western exporter, made sharply higher contribution in the third
quarter and nine months. The rail unit did better in the second and third
quarters.
CP Ships, CP Trucks and CP Hotels improved their performance.
Third-quarter income from continuing operations was CDollars 1.7m (USDollars
1.3m), up from CDollars 1.6m a year earlier, but after special items the
overall loss came out at CDollars 106.8m, or 33 cents, against a loss of
CDollars 205.6m or 64 cents. Revenues were CDollars 1.7bn, from CDollars
1.6bn.
The first nine months showed income from continuing operations ahead at
CDollars 160.3m, from CDollars 95.3m, but after special items the loss was
CDollars 73.1m or 23 cents a share, compared with a deficit of CDollars
224.3m or 70 cents a share. Revenues were CDollars 4.8bn, against CDollars
5.5bn.
The special items included losses on the sale of the Forest Products unit,
CP's share of Laidlaw's special charges, partly offset by gains on asset
sales. The 1992 result included heavy write-offs for CP Rail's
restructuring.
The group recently sold control of Canadian Pacific Forest Products, one of
North America's biggest newsprint producers, to reduce its debt and to make
its earnings less volatile.
Mr William Stinson, chairman, said steps were being taken to reduce losses
at the 48 per cent-owned Unitel telecommunications affiliate and a
restructuring charge was possible in the fourth quarter.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

931102

