FT932-6657

FT  27 MAY 93 / The Lex Column: Courtaulds


Far from making the rights issue the market feared, Courtaulds did not even
offer an enhanced scrip dividend with its full-year results. Plenty of other
companies with Pounds 39m unrelieved advance corporation tax and chunky
capital expenditure plans would have leapt at the opportunity, but that is
not Courtaulds' style. Even so, gearing of only 40 per cent owes a lot to
the cash extracted from the pension fund surplus before the year end.
Profits were equally flattered by a pension fund credit, which will be
Pounds 9m lower this year, and by translation of overseas profits into
sterling at an attractive rate.
Whether Courtaulds' main markets improve before its luck turns in the
currency markets remains an open question. The outlook in defence and
aerospace is hardly encouraging, although weaker sterling will almost
certainly make for better export prospects this year than in the first half
of last. The joint venture with Hoechst in acrylic and viscose fibres also
looks adroit. Since Courtaulds' existing capacity is at full stretch,
operating margins on the Pounds 130m new turnover to be consolidated should
eventually be well up with the group average of 10 per cent - although
possibly not before a restructuring charge.
That suggests another tough year to come. But while there are many other
industrial companies more geared to recovery, an increased dividend covered
more than twice by earnings makes Courtaulds stand out from the crowd.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930527

