FT933-9968

FT  06 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: A defensive Shell


Shell's rough handling by the market yesterday was a little surprising,
given that profits were at the top end of expectations once restructuring
and currency losses had been stripped out. Perhaps it was because BP's
figures are viewed with the indulgence granted to a recovery stock. Never
mind that Shell has a recovery programme as effective as BP's, Shell is seen
as the giant tortoise. Yet that is unfair. Shell is strongly represented in
buoyant areas such as US natural gas and east Asian oil refining and is less
exposed to the falling crude price than BP. Some further switching from BP
to Shell seems in order.
BP, of course, can with some justice flaunt its progress towards meeting the
targets it set when the dividend was cut a year ago. The generosity of the
market, however, means that attention is immediately switching to what BP
will do for an encore. There is room for further corporate slimming, though
some of the benefits doubtless will be lost to competitive pressures. The
dividend question also cannot be ducked much longer. Since BP yields so much
less than Shell, investors will soon be asking when their above average
dividend growth is going to arrive.
However necessary BP's retrenchment, it is not sufficient to secure the
longer term. BP makes a virtue of necessity when it argues that extra
capital is not needed because investment opportunities are thin on the
ground. They must be found if BP is not to fall behind the competition.
There remains a nagging suspicion that once BP collects its gold star for
beating last year's targets, the capital-raising bowl will not be far
behind.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

930806

