FT934-11538

FT  30 OCT 93 / Travel: Masterful guide to World Heritage sites


TRICK QUESTION: how many British sites appear on Unesco's World Heritage
list of 360 'natural and spiritual treasures' of 80 countries? asks Michael
Thompson-Noel. Masterworks of Man & Nature, published by Harper-MacRae at
Pounds 30, puts the answer at 14.
It is a trick question because one of them is Henderson Island, uninhabited
and largest of the Pitcairn group in the south Pacific. Henderson is
described as one of the few remaining pristine atolls anywhere, an
evolutionary laboratory with all the dynamics of natural selection on
display.
Top marks, however, if you managed to call to mind six of the remaining 13
British sites. The list: Blenheim palace, Oxfordshire; the city of Bath,
Avon; Edward I's castle and town walls, Gwynedd, north west Wales;
Canterbury cathedral, St Augustine's abbey and St Martin's church,
Canterbury, Kent; St Kilda, Outer Hebrides; Stonehenge, Avebury and
associated megalithic sites, Wiltshire; the Giant's Causeway and its coast,
Northern Ireland; Tower of London; Ironbridge Gorge, Wrekin; Westminster
palace and abbey, and St Margaret's church, London; Durham cathedral and
castle; Hadrian's wall; Studley royal park and the ruins of Fountains abbey,
North Yorkshire.
Masterworks is a thorough, well-photographed guide to all 360 World Heritage
sites, buttressed by useful essays.
Paul Keating, prime minister of Australia, co-signs the preface in which he
describes the World Heritage convention as 'one of the greatest achievements
in international co-operation of all time.'

The Financial Times


London Page X

931030

