FT934-8757

FT  13 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Emerging markets


The emerging markets bandwagon continues to roll. Around Pounds 350m has
been raised by investment trusts this year, while Pounds 250m has flowed
into unit trusts. Govett Emerging Markets, an investment trust launched in
July, is already back for more. Institutional investors have usually been
first in the queue for closed-end funds. So far their faith has been
rewarded. Emerging markets investment trusts have seen net assets rise by 50
per cent on average during the last year. Share prices have risen by over 70
per cent as discounts to net assets have changed into premiums.
Yet some of the premiums are difficult to understand. Kleinwort Benson's
Emerging Markets trust has traded at a 10 per cent premium to net assets
even though the firm's unit trust - invested by the same team on the same
basis - is available at par. Templeton Emerging Markets trades at a 12 per
cent premium while the firm's Luxembourg-based SICAV can be bought at net
asset value.
The charges levied by the different funds might account for part of that
differential. The closed-end nature of an investment trust should also give
it the edge in illiquid markets; a unit trust or SICAV might expect
investors to leave when times are bad, forcing the fund manager to sell
stock into falling markets. But while equity markets are rising, this
benefit counts for little. The most compelling explanation for the anomaly
is that the market for emerging markets funds is itself an imperfect,
emerging market.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931113

