FT934-8441

FT  16 NOV 93 / Mexico cuts 1993 growth forecast to 1.1%


   By DAMIAN FRASER


   MEXICO CITY


MEXICO'S government has cut its estimate for economic growth this year to
just 1.1 per cent, while forecasting 3 per cent expansion next year,
according to figures released in the annual budget.
The budget sets out a conservative macroeconomic policy for the year ahead,
geared towards achieving the modest pick-up in growth and a 5 per cent
inflation rate. The budget document expects inflation this year to end up at
7.7 per cent .
The government plans to run a balanced budget in 1994, from an expected
surplus of 1 per cent of GDP this year, and says monetary and exchange rate
policy will continue to be directed towards price stabilisation. Net debt as
a proportion of GDP is expected to fall below the current level of 21 per
cent.
The forecast for this year's growth is lower than most private sector
estimates, and suggests the government expects the sharp slowdown in the
second quarter to have continued throughout the year.
The government blames the weak growth on industrial restructuring that
Mexico's private sector is going through in order to compete in world
markets.
The government said that with or without the North American Free Trade
Agreement, Mexico's opening to trade would be maintained and consolidated.
It claimed that the impact of the agreement would only be felt in the long
term, although most economists expected approval of the treaty to increase
short-term growth.
This year's low economic growth helped contain the current account deficit,
which is expected to reach 5.4 per cent of GDP this year, or about Dollars
19.5bn. Next year, the current account deficit is forecast to fall to 5 per
cent of GDP, in absolute terms a little more than this year.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

931116

