FT934-8358

FT  16 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Eurotunnel


Sir Alastair Morton has not struggled to hide his frustration at Britain's
failure to build a high-speed rail link to the Channel tunnel. So he will
doubtless have a few choice words to say on the subject when his new
committee on private finance for public projects starts to meet. In his
other guise as Eurotunnel's chief executive, however, the repeated delays in
the fast link are by now simply a fact of life.
The gentle amble through Kent will reduce Eurotunnel's attractions to short
haul air travellers, but the ferry services are Eurotunnel's initial target.
Yesterday's announcement that Stena Sealink is putting an extra ferry on the
Dover-Calais route coincides with Eurotunnel's proposal to charge by the car
rather than the passenger. Both groups are manoeuvring for position rather
than signalling a price war. Once the tunnel is open, co-operation between
the ferry companies seems likely, and Stena may only be ensuring its
equality with P&O.
If the government allows some kind of ferry merger, costs of the competing
Channel operators will be substantially reduced. Even then, the economics of
the Channel links - which have seen a huge increase in fixed capacity and
capital employed - are finely balanced on the prospects for traffic growth.
That is hardly a comfortable position for those Eurotunnel investors who
subscribed project finance equity capital on different assumptions in 1987.
The point should not be lost on anyone considering giving government schemes
another whirl.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

931116

