FT933-12540

FT  23 JUL 93 / The Lex Column: Les Miserables


There was a sickly look not just to the French franc but to the entire ERM
last night as the realisation sank in that strong money growth would make
the Bundesbank reluctant to cut rates. There is little chance of the system
surviving in its current form if the franc is forced out. That would only
underline how wasteful in terms of lost output, jobs and fiscal revenues has
been the attempt to keep up with Germany. Both countries must hope they can
ride out the storm. Yet intervention on yesterday's scale cannot be
maintained indefinitely; nor will the markets be convinced for long by
higher French money market rates, given its manifest desire to block any
impact on the real economy.
A full point cut in German rates could now be needed to calm the markets
down, but that would be a miraculous change of heart for the Bundesbank.
Technical alternatives - like a narrowing of the franc's trading bands to
show determination or a widening to give additional leeway - do not promise
much. Neither would allow France to cut rates significantly below German
levels, which is what its economy needs.
Perhaps the Balladur administration should take heart from the UK's
experience. Its exit from the ERM allowed rates to be cut and recovery to
begin while inflation continued to fall. Against other ERM countries the
D-Mark is strong. Against sterling, the Swiss franc and the yen it is weak.
Were the French franc to leave the ERM its natural strength might show
through. France's determination to cling to the system even at severe cost
is the largest factor forcing it down.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930723

