FT932-3143

FT  16 JUN 93 / California attacked on unitary taxation


   By ANDREW JACK


CALIFORNIA'S system of a unitary tax based on the worldwide income of
multinational companies came under criticism from a senior official of the
UK's Inland Revenue at the Financial Times' international tax conference in
London yesterday.
Mr Leonard Beighton, deputy chairman of the Inland Revenue, said
California's approach could only have 'arbitrary and bizarre' results. His
comments follow the threat of retaliatory action against Californian
companies with UK operations by the chancellor of the exchequer last month
if the state does not lessen its demands.
He said the Revenue had written to these companies to assess the extent of
tax credits of which they would be deprived, but stressed it hoped instead
for co-operation.
Mr Beighton stressed the importance of maintaining internationally agreed
tax principles, especially the importance of the arm's length principle of
taxing companies by the profits made in a country and not on worldwide
income.
Mr James Mogle, a partner with US lawyers Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan and
former international tax counsel at the US Treasury, told the conference
that Congress had not so far taken the British threat seriously. But he
warned that any attempt to impose retaliatory action would be seen by
Congress as an attempt to over-ride the arrangements negotiated in the
current US-UK tax treaty. That could jeopardise other treaties.
Mr David Carr, from the European Commission's financial institutions and
company law directorate, said the EC was pursuing plans to extend proposed
tax directives to cover enterprises resident and subject to corporate tax in
any member states, with progress expected 'before too long'.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

930616

