FT932-255

FT  29 JUN 93 / Commodities and Agriculture: Bullion bank likely to change
hands


   By KENNETH GOODING


MASE WESTPAC, the world's only bullion bank and one of the five members of
the committee that fixes the gold price in London, is likely to change
hands.
Westpac, the biggest Australian bank, which has been restructuring after
sustaining deep losses, has entered into heads of agreement to sell Mase
Westpac to Republic National Bank of New York. No price has been mentioned.
Republic is part of the international group controlled by Mr Edmond Safra,
the Swiss-based banker.
Mase Westpac was formerly known as Johnson Matthey Bankers. It was bought by
Westpac in 1986 from the Bank of England which had rescued JMB two years
previously after it got into difficulties with its loan book.
Mr Dick Gazmararian, managing director of Mase Westpac, is the present
chairman of the London Bullion Market Association. His predecessor at the
LBMA, Mr Robert Guy, a director of N M Rothschild, the financial services
group at whose offices the London gold 'fix' is held twice every working
day, said last night that, if the deal went through, Republic National Bank
would be invited to fill the seat at the 'fix' vacated by Mase Westpac.
Apart from its London operations, Mase Westpac also has branches and
subsidiaries in New York, Sydney and Hong Kong. Republic is said to be very
active in the physical gold market and as a bullion trader but has only
limited mining finance operations.

The Financial Times


London Page 28

930629

