FT932-3180

FT  15 JUN 93 / London Stock Exchange: Shell in demand


   By STEVE THOMPSON, JOEL KIBAZO and CHRISTINE BUCKLEY


Another slide in international crude oil prices, down more than Dollars 1 a
barrel to around Dollars 17.60 since last week's Opec meeting in Geneva,
brought renewed pressure on the oils sector, with the exception of Shell
Transport.
Marginally easier during early trading, Shell rallied strongly during the
afternoon as the company gave what one oil sector analyst described as 'a
powerful and impressive' presentation to London investment specialists.
Shell delivered a similar message during the past two weeks to a number of
high-powered European and US institutions, which saw the share price race up
to a record 630p.
The group was said to have emphasised again its determination to carry
through a policy of cost-cutting and portfolio rationalisation. 'The company
is seen as adopting a ruthless attitude to all its divisions; perform or be
prepared to be slimmed down, sold off or chopped,' said an analyst who
attended the meeting.
At the close Shell stood 5 higher at 625p after 2.4m turnover. Other leading
oils were hit by the slide in crude prices. British Petroleum declined 4 to
310p, apparently affected by profit-taking from the US, where some of the
income funds that bought the shares aggressively last year were said to be
'top-slicing'. Turnover in BP was a hefty 9.3m.
The two leading UK oil exploration and production stocks also encountered
selling. Enterprise Oil lost 2 to 474p and Lasmo, turfed out of the FT-SE
100 Index last week, eased further to 160p.

The Financial Times


London Page 44

930615

