FT934-10186

FT  06 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Hutchison/Mercury


That Hutchison has decided to wring Rabbit's neck can hardly be a shock.
About the only surprise is the fact that the lame beast has been allowed to
hop along for so long. More significant is Hutchison's announcement that it
is to continue investing in its mobile telephone network, to rival Mercury's
One-2-One. At present the two digital networks cover complementary
geographical areas, One-2-One operating in London, Hutchison to be launched
in provincial cities next year.
That has led to speculation that the two networks might be merged. While it
is possible that Hutchison's declaration of an accelerated building
programme is only a negotiating tactic, its past record suggests that it is
not bluffing. If Hutchison is determined, One-2-One will have to respond
with a faster roll-out too. Both will have to find cash earlier to fund the
capital investment required.
More probable than an outright merger is the prospect that the two networks
may co-operate so that customers from one system can use the other in the
initial phases of development. That would encourage more customers into both
networks and improve cash flow. Mercury, however, is the stronger and has to
balance that advantage against conferring the power of its brand name on its
competitor. Vodafone and Cellnet, meanwhile, can expect more pressure on
margins as perceptions that their systems are expensive rise. But given the
rate at which the market is growing, that may not worry them unduly.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931106

