FT933-5183

FT  04 SEP 93 / The Lex Column: US economy


Yesterday's news on US employment will have done little to encourage those
looking for a sharp second-half rebound in the economy. The hope had been
that as consumers had run down savings towards the end of 1992, the weaker
growth earlier this year would prove merely a pause for breath. Domestic
demand has been reasonably robust, and the disappointing overall growth
figures are due in part to weaker economies elsewhere, which have resulted
in higher US imports and weak exports. Yet since the US economy is on a
slower upward trend than in previous recoveries, temporary setbacks can make
it look wrongly as though the upturn is stalling altogther.
If the Federal Reserve thus has little reason to raise interest rates, the
recovery is not yet faltering badly enough to provoke a further easing. With
monetary policy stable, equities are in a benign area. Earnings gains may be
low but that is preferable to higher growth with resurgent inflation and the
risk of Fed tightening. Rallying bond markets and the flow of funds from the
money markets may also drive the market higher despite the historically
stretched valuations.
Whether such fortunate circumstances will persist is another question. High
equity prices increase the risk of a sharp correction if growth stalls or
inflation resurfaces. In that context, the upward revision of growth figures
through the recession is interesting. It implies that the US output gap is
not as wide as thought, and capacity constraints may emerge. Other markets
have more room to expand, and more flexibility to ease monetary policy.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

930904

