FT934-8543

FT  15 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: A marginal existence


Britain's high street banks must view the possibility of an interest rate
cut at budget time with some ambivalence. The days are long gone when lower
rates were needed to stop their customers going under. Another half point or
so off base rate would do little to bring provisions down faster. It would
reduce the cost of funding non-performing loans, but this saving would be
largely offset by lower returns on so-called free balances, accumulated
capital and current account deposits on which banks do not pay interest.
Lower interest rates could thus put margins under downward pressure, despite
the lucrative opportunities in mortgage lending which were amply
demonstrated in Bank of Scotland's recent results. The building societies'
dependence on retail savings has forced them to keep mortgage rates high so
that they can afford to pay adequate interest to their depositors. This has
created an opportunity for banks which have unrestricted access to cheap
wholesale money.
The banks, however, have now reduced rates on their own retail savings
products to the bone. If base rates fall further, they could increasingly
come under the kind of margin squeeze facing the building societies. To
compensate, even conservative banks like Lloyds, which faces particular
pressure on its operating income, might try lending more. The temptation
might become more general as bank capital is swollen by the post-recession
recovery in earnings.
But competition for a limited pool of credit business could simply depress
margins further. Hence the need for savings in areas like cheque processing.
Lower base rates would also hasten the day banks are forced to start
charging for current accounts and other money transmission services.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

931115

