FT933-10195

FT  05 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: A Yorkshire pudding


When two building societies justify a merger by mouthing platitudes about
synergy and economies of scale, the natural temptation is to rummage through
their reserves. But, rare though it may be, the merger between the two
Yorkshire-based societies, Leeds and National & Provincial, is not driven by
desperation. Rather, it really does reflect the desire to become bigger and
better. A national society with 650 branches and Pounds 32bn of assets is
undoubtedly big. Whether it can operate more efficiently will depend on its
determination to cut savagely both societies' bloated costs. The danger is,
though, that too drastic surgery will only antagonise staff and customers
alike. The experience of the Nationwide and Anglia merger is hardly a happy
precedent.
A broader worry is that size alone will prove no more than a temporary
palliative against competitive threats. Building societies are losing share
in the mortgage market at a brisk rate. This is partly a cyclical phenomenon
as the well of retail funding dries up as a result of low interest rates.
Arguably, it also reflects a structural change as banks target the mortgage
market more aggressively.
The banks are unlikely to fret much about an enlarged Leeds. But their
nerves would fray if more building societies agglomerated, converted
themselves into banks and broadened their distribution of financial
products. That may yet prove Leeds's ultimate destiny. Such entities would
be well placed to compete in providing modish bancassurance. The trouble is
if too many societies reached the same conclusion simultaneously, the
returns would diminish and the strategy would have to be rethought.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

930805

