FT933-5093

FT  06 SEP 93 / Lira fall boosts Italian exports


   By ROBERT GRAHAM


   ROME


THE INCREASED competitiveness of Italian exports, as a result of last
September's lira devaluation, has been confirmed by statistics just
published on trade for the first six months of 1993.
In this period, Italy's total exports rose 19 per cent. Within the EC, the
increase was lower, at 11 per cent. This reflected both the depressed state
of most European economies and fierce competition from other exporters, such
as the UK, which have also seen currencies depreciate sharply.
Even so, with the EC absorbing almost 60 per cent of Italian exports, the
impact on Italy's terms of trade was significant. More exports, combined
with its recession-hit economy, ensured a sharp turnround in trade balance.
Istat, the national statistics institute, said Italy recorded a half-year
overall surplus of L8,611bn (Pounds 3.6bn), against a L13,647bn deficit for
the 1992 first half. The rise is reflected in an improved performance in all
product sectors.
On a country basis, the most spectacular change has been in Italian-German
trade, as a result of a 30 per cent devaluation of the lira against the
D-mark. In the first half Italy recorded a surplus of L2,734bn with Germany,
its main trading partner, compared to a deficit of L3,995bn during the
equivalent period in 1992. Also, given a strong depreciation against the
French franc, Italian exports moved from a L1,689bn deficit to a L970bn
surplus.
In the case of the UK, the increase was substantial, but lower than those of
Germany and France. The trade balance with the UK increased from a L238bn
surplus to L1,453bn. The UK is Italy's third largest partner in the EC.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

930906

