FT932-6645

FT  27 MAY 93 / UK Company News: Whessoe slips back to Pounds 4.02m


   By PETER PEARSE


WITH FRS 3 accounting standards boosting last year's pre-tax line, Whessoe,
the instrumentation and control and piping systems group, reported a slip in
taxable profits from Pounds 4.16m to Pounds 4.02m in the half-year to March
31.
Naturally though, Mr John Samuel, group financial director, was keen to
emphasise that, at the operating level, profits grew 15 per cent to Pounds
3.74m (Pounds 3.25m), a result with which he was 'pleased', given the
'difficult trading environment.'
Group turnover advanced 11 per cent to Pounds 40.8m (Pounds 36.6m). Earnings
per share declined to 11.6p (13.7p), though without FRS 3, they would have
increased, the company said. As a result, the interim dividend is lifted to
2.3p (2.2p).
In February, Whessoe launched a Pounds 21.8m bid for Autronica, the
Norwegian maritime and industrial instrumentation and fire security systems
group.
Mr Samuel thought it 'highly unlikely' that the bid would be turned down by
the Norwegian authorities, but could not guess at the conditions that might
be imposed.
A rights issue in February raised Pounds 14.3m towards the cost of the bid,
with the balance coming from cash reserves.
The instrumentation and control division lifted profits to Pounds 1.76m
(Pounds 1.13m) on turnover of Pounds 15.7m (Pounds 10.5m), helped by a full
contribution from Varec, acquired in 1992. Profits in the piping systems
side, however, fell to Pounds 2.06m (Pounds 2.3m) on turnover down at Pounds
16.9m (Pounds 19.4m).

The Financial Times


London Page 26

930527

