FT934-10275

FT  06 NOV 93 / Tokyo shrugs off fall in share values


   By EMIKO TERAZONO


   TOKYO


THE Japanese government yesterday shrugged off the continuing fall in the
Tokyo stock market, with the Nikkei index losing a further 1.9 per cent in a
fourth consecutive day of selling.
Mr Masayoshi Takemura, chief cabinet secretary, said that while the
government was closely monitoring stock prices it was not considering
additional stimulus measures to support the stock market. Mr Hirohisa Fujii,
finance minister, said early implementation of fiscal measures announced
last September was more important than worrying over day-to-day market
movements.
However, the recent decline in share prices is expected to hamper Japanese
banks' attempts to cover losses stemming from the failure of Muramoto
Construction, the largest corporate collapse in postwar history, and other
bad loan write-offs with profits from stock sales.
The Nikkei average yesterday declined 359.33 to 18,590.46, for a loss of 5.6
per cent on the week. Pessimism over corporate earnings is the leading
factor dragging down the stock market. According to the National Tax Agency,
total income declared by companies with capital of Y100m (Pounds 625,000) or
more, during the year to last June, fell a record 18.9 per cent to
Y24,895bn. Of the 35,287 companies, only 56.6 per cent made profits, the
lowest since 1975.
Another damper has been last week's flotation of East Japan Railway, the
largest listing since Nippon Telegraph and Telephone in 1987. JR East
yesterday fell to Y476,000, 21 per cent lower than its initial trading
price.
Meanwhile, Japan's current account surplus for the six months to September
rose for the fifth consecutive half-year period. The surplus increased 11.7
per cent from the previous year to Dollars 68.7bn (Pounds 45.4bn). However,
in yen terms, the unadjusted surplus declined 5.5 per cent to Y6,875.1bn,
suggesting it may have peaked on a yen basis. The six-month trade surplus
rose 8.1 per cent to Dollars 70.8bn, marking its sixth consecutive gain.
Within the total, the current account surplus grew 10.3 per cent in
September from the previous year to Dollars 13.3bn, rising for the 30th
consecutive month. The month's trade surplus grew 8.5 per cent to Dollars
14.6bn.
Capital flows in September indicated that Japanese investors were net
sellers of foreign bonds, selling a record net figure of Dollars 5.95bn in
order to book profits ahead of the September interim book closing. Foreign
investors were net buyers of Japanese securities, purchasing a net Dollars
3.47bn in stocks and Dollars 2.4bn in bonds.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

931106

