FT934-8654

FT  13 NOV 93 / Briefcase, Q&A: Setting up a trust


AS A HOBBY, I carry out the book-keeping duties for the limited company and
partnership owned by my son and a colleague.
I would like to set up a trust fund, under my own control, for my young
grandchildren and to place approximately Pounds 100 a month in the fund.
This would be paid from my son's business interests in recognition of my
clerical support.
I might also wish to place funds of my own into the trust from time to time.
I would like the trust source income to be free of income tax liability and,
likewise, any income derived from the trust investments. How can I set up a
trust to cover these requirements?
Once the money is in the trust, it could be possible to ensure that tax is
mitigated by investing in assets which are likely to produce capital gains
rather than income.
The capital gains may be covered by the trust's CGT exemption.
Alternatively, you could pass the money directly to your grandchildren so
that they could place the money in their own names and enjoy the income,
free of tax, to the extent that it is covered by their available personal
allowances.
There is a difficulty in arranging for the income to be received tax-free.
Your son's partnership presumably obtains an income tax deduction for the
clerical fees paid to you and I would expect your receipt of such income to
be subject to income tax.
 -Barry Stillerman
No legal responsibility can be accepted by the Financial Times for the
answers given in these columns. All enquiries will be answered by post as
soon as possible.

The Financial Times


London Page VIII

931113

