FT933-12715

FT  22 JUL 93 / London Stock Exchange: Food retailers hard hit


   By JOEL KIBAZO, CHRISTOPHER PRICE and CHRISTINE BUCKLEY


FOOD retailers again suffered the fallout from widespread profits downgrades
and shares fell back across the sector. Argyll Group bore the brunt of
analysts' cutbacks as sector specialists reacted negatively to the agm held
on the previous day, and to the cautious note struck by Sir Alistair Grant,
its chairman.
Argyll was hit by downgrades from Hoare Govett, NatWest Securities and Smith
New Court, among others, with profits forecasts receding by around 5 per
cent to a range of Pounds 445m to Pounds 465m. Tesco was another retailer to
suffer cuts to its forecasts, Hoare and Smith both downgrading the stock.
The latter broker also reduced figures for J. Sainsbury and Asda.
Underlining its continued negative stance on the sector, one broker said
yesterday that it expected both Argyll and Tesco shares to underperform the
market by around 30 per cent over the next 12 months, and by some 16 per
cent against the sector.
Low growth in food prices is partly blamed by both brokers and company
executives for the faltering outlook. Sir Alistair said on Tuesday that food
price inflation was running below 1.5 per cent, significantly beneath
expectations in the stock market. Worries over the impact of discounting,
lower margins and market saturation have also underpinned the raft of
downgrades that have dogged the sector for the past five months.
Yesterday, as shares retreated, an afternoon rally suggested that a
short-term floor may have been found, although retailing analysts expect
that to be breached in time. Asda slipped a penny to 61 3/4 p, Argyll 7 to
295p in turnover of 7.2m shares, Kwik Save 12 to 658p and Tesco 2 to 202p.
Sainsbury recovered to close unchanged at 450p.

The Financial Times


London Page 40

930722

