FT932-121

FT  30 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: BAT Industries


Smoke must be getting into someone's eyes at BAT. The first part of
yesterday's statement dealt at length with the reshuffle of its European
brands; the second, which came as a fleeting postscript, with developments
on the US market since Philip Morris escalated the cigarette price war in
April. Yet that has a more significant bearing on BAT's prospects and
unfortunately the news is bad. Not only has Kool, a premium menthol brand
which was not supposed to be in Philip Morris's sights, suffered from
discounting. The process, which will lead to a Dollars 75m stock adjustment
loss in the first half, was evidently well under way before Philip Morris
struck.
The implication is that the price war will be bloodier than many at first
supposed. BAT will have to sit it out until its larger brethren decide to
call a halt. The risk is that, by then, the government will have increased
the tax on cigarettes to pay for its healthcare reforms. Margins could thus
remain under pressure for years to come.
The European exchange with American Brands will hardly compensate, despite
the striking Pounds 135m pre-tax gain for 1993. Nearly half of that
represents profit borrowed from future years. The most that can be said is
that BAT appears to have won itself a good financial deal which also makes
marketing sense, perhaps because American Brands was prepared to pay up for
control of Benson & Hedges throughout the European single market. At 422p
the shares are underpinned by a yield of 5.5 per cent, but yesterday's fall
was a reminder that they remain vulnerable to bad news from the US.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930630

