FT933-5389

FT  03 SEP 93 / The Lex Column: Sun Alliance


With insurance shares trading at a handsome premium to net asset value, woe
betide the company which does not deliver growth in shareholders' funds.
While the underwriting recovery at Sun Alliance during the first half is in
line with the competition, investment gains were washed away by goodwill
write-offs and declining property values overseas. For those who regard Sun
as a geared play on rising UK equities, that is especially disappointing.
The 5 per cent fall in the shares reflects as much.
With its balance sheet strengthened by investment gains since the half year,
and the promised preference share issue to come, Sun will doubtless maintain
its heavy weighting in UK equities and property. Its following should thus
be undiminished despite yesterday's setback, at least among investors who
believe a new era of asset price inflation is around the corner. For those
less bearish on inflation, though, the question is whether investment gains
will be frittered away by mistakes on the insurance side.
The acquisition of Denmark's Hafnia, which gave raise to half the goodwill
write-off, looks safe enough. The investment should show a decent return if
promised rate increases and cost savings come through. Being forced to buy
out the minority from Swinton at a price agreed two years ago is more of an
embarrassment, especially since the high street insurance broker is now
trading at a loss. It will take firm action to avoid a mishap on a par with
insurers' attempts to buy distribution through estate agents.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

930903

