FT934-11375

FT  01 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: US economy


   A series of economic statistics this week


from purchasing managers' surveys to Friday's employment report - should
confirm that the US economic recovery has gathered pace in the second half
of the year. Growth forecasts for the period have increased to an annual
rate of 4 per cent, with the main impetus being provided by consumer
spending and housing activity. Quite why consumers are spending more freely
is something of a mystery, given that consumer confidence remains subdued
and earnings are not rising rapidly.
Whatever the cause, the surge in consumer spending may have an impact on
manufacturing as companies rebuild depleted stocks. That should be
sufficient to support growth into the early part of 1994. To maintain the
recovery beyond that will require an increase in employment which will only
come if companies believe that the improvement in demand is sustainable.
The economic upturn has not as yet disturbed the bond market, since
inflationary pressures remain subdued. Nor is the Federal Reserve likely to
tighten short-term interest rates until it is convinced that a strong and
sustainable recovery is in train. With funds flowing out of deposits, bond
yields and equity prices may be sustainable for the moment, even though the
gathering recovery brings the prospects of a Fed tightening nearer. While
attention is focused on the Federal Reserve, the first signs of an end to
the equity bull market will probably come from weakening bonds rather than
rising short-term rates.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

931101

