FT932-13449

FT  23 APR 93 / Eagle Star set to write Lloyd's risk


   By RICHARD LAPPER


EAGLE STAR has become the first UK insurance company to take advantage of
the current enthusiasm of the Lloyd's of London market for consortium
underwriting - in which insurance companies underwrite business alongside
Lloyd's syndicates.
The insurance subsidiary of BAT industries has signed an agreement to
underwrite engineering risks in a deal which should increase the capacity -
or capital base - of syndicate 1048, managed by Crowe Underwriting Agents,
which had a stamp capacity of Pounds 34.3m in 1992. Eagle Star is committing
less than Pounds 10m to the consortium under the deal, negotiated by broker
Jardine Thompson Graham.
The deal is the third announced so far by Lloyd's agencies this year.
Consortium deals are seen as a way of easing capital shortages caused by the
withdrawal from the insurance market of Names, the individuals whose capital
supports underwriting.
This week Cassidy Davis Underwriting increased the capacity of syndicate 582
by Pounds 6.5m to Pounds 42.65m. The Swiss company, Winterthur, and four
life insurance companies - M&G reinsurance of Canada, Sun Life of Canada,
Manufacturers Life, Union Reinsurance and Northwestern National Life
Insurance - are backing the consortium, together with three Lloyd's
syndicates.
The cash is earmarked for underwriting the reinsurance of overseas medical
schemes.
Syndicate 582 also agreed a separate consortium with two French companies,
Assurances Generales de France and SCOR, to underwrite creditor policies.

The Financial Times


London Page 9

930423

