FT932-13385

FT  23 APR 93 / The Lex Column: A miraculous recovery


The government has found so many ways of 'adjusting' the unemployment
figures that it is hard not to feel cynical about recent falls. All the more
so because the proffered explanations are so intangible. Still, it is not
totally implausible that improvements in the supply side of the labour
market have made it more responsive to changing economic conditions.
Companies may be faster to sack people, but they may also be less frightened
to hire them back - particularly in areas such as housebuilding which have
seen a strong upturn this year. If that is true, then unemployment is less
of a lagging indicator than it was in the past. Support for the idea of a
more flexible market comes from the average earnings and unit wage figures
which are down to a level more normally associated with a successful low
inflation economy.
Since the appalling December jobs data gave rise to the base rate cut in
January, it is reasonable to assume that further cuts have now been
postponed. That may cause short gilts to give up some ground, though longer
maturities can take comfort from the relatively benign inflation outlook.
Confirmation from the Bundesbank that the situation in Germany continues to
worsen will also help sterling. Even if the pound approaches DM2.70 as
German rates fall, it will still be well below the level of a year ago. The
chancellor may actually welcome this, given the extent of monetary easing
since Black Wednesday.
What remains unclear is the political response to the worsening of official
figures which surely lies ahead. The recent data have been so strong that
there is bound to be some disappointment during the summer.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930423

