FT933-5392

FT  03 SEP 93 / The Lex Column: Doing it the Stein way


A generation at the head of a public company must leave an indelible
impression on both the chairman and the chair. Mr Cyril Stein, who is to
retire as Ladbroke's chairman at the end of the year, has worked a
near-miracle in building the company from a small bookmaker into a FT-SE 100
company. The question now, however, is whether Mr Stein really has the
self-discipline to let go, and whether the management team, which bears his
mark, can take up the challenge.
If Mr Stein does fade into the background - despite his non-executive
directorship, a continuing role in the property division and promise to be a
feature of head office life - the way is open for change. Most obviously,
Ladbroke can take the opportunity to cut the final dividend in March,
stemming its cash outflow and putting the payout back into line with the
prospects for the business. The current yield on the shares implies that few
believe the dividend is sustainable: a cut would probably be seen as a
welcome return to reality.
Given its head, the management might also be tempted to clear out any
remaining problem areas. That would smooth the way for a rights issue next
summer, easing the strain on the balance sheet. However much that means
shareholders paying for previous management overambition, it would allow the
company to focus on its businesses instead of its finances. Ladbroke's
markets will remain tough. DIY competition will continue to intensify,
property will remain sticky in all but prime sites, hotels will continue to
demand capital investment, and racing faces a threat from the national
lottery. The worry, however, is that Mr Stein's influence may prevent the
necessary action.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

930903

