FT934-11572

FT  30 OCT 93 / The Lex Column: Food manufacturers


The big three superstore groups this week conducted a highly effective
marketing campaign. Unfortunately, it was for their new rival, Costco. Their
legal challenge ensured much media space was devoted to the threat of
warehouse clubs, unnerving the stock market. More than Pounds 800m was
lopped off the value of the big three's shares in two days as a result. Such
a response is surely out of proportion to the immediate threat to their
market position. But fears of margin pressure over the longer run may yet
prove well founded. Amid the hysteria, almost no attention has been paid to
the possible knock-on effects on retailers' suppliers. If the superstore
groups over-react to Costco's arrival and cut prices, then manufacturers'
margins will clearly suffer. A lowering of the food industry's whole margin
structure would be just as painful for the manufacturers as the established
retailers in the near term.
Strangely, though, the branded food manufacturers could view warehouse clubs
as their biggest allies if they become a substantial presence in future. UK
manufacturers are desperate to lessen their exposure to the big three and
develop alternative distribution channels. Not only do UK superstores exert
ever greater buying muscle, they are also committed to developing their own
rival private label products. Yet, in the US, warehouse clubs stock leading
branded goods almost exclusively. For manufacturers, higher sales volumes
through warehouse clubs could be their best chance of offsetting the
inevitable margin squeeze.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

931030

