FT932-6659

FT  27 MAY 93 / The Lex Column: In at the deep end


Residents of Manchester and Liverpool may be surprised to learn that their
environment is similar to that in Malaysia, Bangkok and Mexico City. But
that is the view North West Water takes of their plumbing when it argues
that its overseas diversification programme is a low-risk extension of its
existing business. International activities are, however, rarely as simple -
or indeed profitable - as optimistic managers fondly believe at the outset.
Joint ventures also bring an added level of complication and potential
mishap, while 30-year operating contracts in the developing world may carry
additional risks.
Investors may thus be unhappy that the Pounds 60m of cash saved by North
West's enhanced scrip dividend will be ploughed into its loss-making
international operations. Especially since the company has not seen fit to
explain what returns it expects to earn abroad or even when those operations
will become profitable. It must also be questionable whether a recently
privatised utility has the management strength to tackle a large portfolio
of foreign operating contracts.
Since other water companies also have high capital expenditure and
unrelieved advance corporation tax, more enhanced scrip dividends may be
expected. Ofwat, while not directly involved, may view them as a sensible
tool to help balance debt and equity finance. Though whether they prove to
be any more than a one-off will depend both on the Inland Revenue, and on
whether Ofwat regards 50 per cent increases in scrip dividends as an
acceptable price to pay.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930527

