FT934-11188

FT  02 NOV 93 / Arts: Garbarek at his best - Jazz


   By GARRY BOOTH


What with World Cup soccer wins, his country's stock exchange riding at a
three-year high and the diplomatic coup in bringing the PLO and Israelis to
a peace accord, you would think that Norway's Jan Garbarek would cheer up a
bit. His most recent album Twelve Moons (ECM 519 500-2), which set the
searing vocals of folk singing against his own plaintive reeds, has heaped
success on success and yet he remains an old gloomy boots.
This was the gist of a conversation overheard at the Festival Hall last week
mid-way through the saxophonist's chilly set. But in this marvellous small
group with sidemen Rainer Bruninghaus (keyboards), Eberhard Weber (bass),
and Marilyn Mazur (percussion), the ascetic Garbarek is at his atmospheric
best. Sparse arrangements of hypnotising melodies are worked up into
landscapes of uniquely north European complexion. Where the accompaniment is
bleak, the soloists scorch a path through. The ensemble playing is both
elemental and transcendental.
Garbarek's band balances perfectly in an unorthodox way. Denmark-born
Marilyn Mazur stands behind a kit which combines traditional drums with a
hanging garden of exotic shakers and bells. In contrast to this natural
rhythm, at the other end of the stage Bruninghaus creates a fine synth mist
embedded with twinkling notes. Centre stage and alongside Garbarek, Weber at
the electron-bass (a hybrid of upright fiddle and bass guitar with a delay
pedal) weaves plangent lines with the bow in sympathy with Garbarek's
keening soprano.
But the second set brought a new, airborne tenor sound from the leader.
Enlivened by Mazur's brilliant, dervish-like performance behind the shakers
and more angular, discordant phrasing from Weber, Garbarek took off, quoting
Gilberto and leading the group out of the fog and into an almost jolly
Norwegian funk - if such a thing is possible.

The Financial Times


London Page 21

931102

