FT934-11165

FT  02 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: UK budget


There is a timeliness to BZW's warning of possible action in the budget to
remove the institutions' tax credit on dividends. Other options for raising
revenue by pushing up indirect taxes look less attractive, given the
strength of political opposition and worries about their impact on the
headline rate of inflation. Mr Norman Lamont's initial attack on the credit
in April passed with minimal protest. Granted, the equity market fell as it
adjusted to lower yield horizons, but that has long been forgotten in the
dizzy heights reached subsequently.
There is a beguiling argument that, by removing the credit, the government
would be creating a level playing field where institutions receive the same
return as other investors. In reality, its main purpose would again be to
raise revenue. One way or another, companies would end up paying, most
probably through an early end to pension holidays such as BT and Guinness
have already announced. That would have the same effect on their cash flow
as an increase in corporation tax.
Nor is there much consolation in the thought that increased pension fund
contributions would find their way back into equities. The chances are that
an increasing proportion would flow into higher-yielding gilts to meet
actuarial requirements on return. Mr Clarke might be deterred by the desire
to avoid his first budget being greeted by a slumping stock market. Then
again, he would doubtless be delighted if the counterpart was a rising gilt
market - in which he will still have to fund a large deficit next year.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931102

