FT933-12539

FT  23 JUL 93 / The Lex Column: Life insurance


All credit to the chancellor for trying to remove the cloak of obfuscation
behind which the life insurance industry shelters. Up-front disclosure of
commissions for both independent advisers and tied salesmen makes perfect
sense, although the Securities and Investments Board is left with the tricky
task of putting the idea into practice. Unravelling pricing structures in
bancassurance, for example, will not be easy. Disclosure of life companies'
charges may squeeze the least efficient offices. If that forces
consolidation on an over-populated industry, so much the better.
How consumers will react when confronted with the full cost of life
insurance remains an open question. Personal equity plans and tax-exempt
bank accounts have already increased competition for long-term savings. New
business figures from the Prudential show that savers are wary of committing
themselves to traditional regular premium contracts. Recession may be partly
to blame, but the outlook for the housing market - and therefore sales of
endowment mortgages - is anything but bright. Unless the government takes
some uncharacteristically brave decisions, the pensions revolution of the
1980s has also run its course. Life companies will have to fight for
business from here on. Greater transparency may not help their cause.
On that basis the long bull run in life insurance shares may be running out
of steam. After the latest rally even fat laid down in the form of
undistributed investment surpluses is fully in the price. If disclosure
contributes to consolidation there will be rationalisation benefits to come,
but these will be spread unevenly through the sector. Picking winners will
be more important for investors as well as savers.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930723

