FT932-3265

FT  15 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: BET


BET's dividend is shrinking in line with its business. Sales are below the
level of five years ago, with talk of more disposals to come. Operating
profits last year were less than half those reported for 1991-92. Since it
now transpires that asset valuations - and therefore depreciation charges -
have in the past been surprisingly inconsistent across the group, previous
profits are not entirely comparable. But the balance sheet has equally
dictated the dividend cut. Capital and reserves have halved in the last
three years.
While the new management deserves credit for averting a debt crisis, the
reduced size of BET's balance sheet limits its options for growth. There is
little scope for additional borrowing if gearing is to be held down. An
acquisition which required goodwill write-offs would take another bite out
of shareholders' funds. A rights issue to finance an acquisition would solve
both problems, but BET cannot justify another appeal to shareholders on the
basis of good intentions alone. Since the shares closed yesterday just 1p
above the price at which rights were offered in July, it was wise to resist
so much as an enhanced scrip dividend.
That leaves BET to fund organic growth out of cash flow. Having spent two
years squeezing working capital - not to mention the dividend and capital
expenditure - at least its cash generation is strong. But breaking into
higher-margin businesses from scratch will be a slow process.
Meanwhile, the pricing pressures which have squeezed margins in less
capital-intensive areas such as contract cleaning show no sign of easing.
Without relief from that quarter, BET has little hope of establishing itself
as a growth stock.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930615

