FT933-12479

FT  23 JUL 93 / International Company News: Income drops 28% at Dow Chemical


   By KAREN ZAGOR


   NEW YORK


DOW Chemical, the second biggest US chemicals group, yesterday unveiled a 28
per cent drop in second-quarter operating income. The decline reflected the
poor performance of its personal care division and a large pre-tax charge at
Marion Merrell Dow, the pharmaceuticals group which is 71 per cent owned by
Dow.
Stripping out Dow's portion of the charge and other extraordinary items, the
company earned Dollars 205m, or 75 cents a share, against Dollars 193m, or
71 cents a year earlier. Including one-time items, Dow net income was
Dollars 149m, or 54 cents, in the latest quarter.
It blamed flat volume and a 1 per cent price decline for its weaker sales in
the quarter, which fell to Dollars 4.82bn from Dollars 4.86bn in the 1992
period.
This month Dow said Marion Merrill would take charges to cover cost-cutting
measures aimed at saving about Dollars 250m a year. The group has been hit
by sliding sales of its Nicoderm smoking patch and the expiry of patents of
its best-selling product.
Dow's consumer specialities business saw underlying operating income drop 9
per cent in the quarter on sales which fell 5 per cent. Including the Marion
Merrell Dow charge, operating income for the business plunged 57 per cent.
Chemical and performance products posted a 29 per cent improvement in
operating income to Dollars 110m on flat sales of Dollars 1.1bn. Plastics
operations operating income rose 12 per cent on sales which eased 1 per cent
to Dollars 1.7bn.
Hydrocarbons and energy had operating earnings of Dollars 5m in the quarter,
against an operating loss of Dollars 48m, while sales rose 19 per cent to
Dollars 454m.
For the first half, Dow had net income of Dollars 551m, or Dollars 2.01,
compared with a loss of Dollars 394m, or Dollars 1.46. Last year's results
included a charge of Dollars 765m for accounting changes.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

930723

