FT932-3210

FT  15 JUN 93 / International Company News: S&P downgrades Sony debt


   By MICHIYO NAKAMOTO


   TOKYO


STANDARD AND POOR'S has downgraded the credit rating of Sony, the Japanese
consumer electronics company, from single-A plus to single-A due to the
company's sluggish business outlook both on the domestic market and
overseas.
The international credit rating agency cited as reasons for the downgrading
the weakening of Sony's earnings in the past two years, the gloomy outlook
for its business in the face of continued weak demand in Japan and Europe,
the strong yen and the lack of products that are likely to be highly
successful.
In the year to March, Sony reported a 57 per cent decline in pre-tax profits
to Y92.6bn (Dollars 869m) on sales of Y3,993bn, up 1.6 per cent.
The company is forecasting a 2 per cent decline in sales and a 6 per cent
drop in pre-tax profits for the current year due in part to higher interest
charges.
Sony is the latest of a number of Japanese electronics companies which have
had their credit ratings downgraded in recent months.
The continuing slump in consumer spending in Japan has been compounded by
the adverse effect of the yen on the profitability of many electronics
companies which depend on exports for a high proportion of their revenues.
S&P said that although Sony's capital structure did not deteriorate in the
fiscal year that ended on March 31, debt leverage has been relatively high
since the acquisition of Columbia Pictures (now Sony Pictures Entertainment)
in 1989.
Sony Pictures Entertainment's subordinated rating has also been downgraded
to A- from A.

The Financial Times


London Page 29

930615

