FT934-8541

FT  15 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: UK accounting


Having knocked the profit and loss account into shape, the Accounting
Standards Board now plans to tackle the vexed question of goodwill -
ironically during the Christmas season. The debate is unlikely to generate
much cheer. The question is how companies which pay more than net assets for
acquisitions should treat that premium in their accounts. On a wholly
pragmatic view, the interests of UK companies would be served by an
accounting treatment which is transparent and in step with international
practice. That argues for amortisation of goodwill through the profit and
loss over a fixed period. Both the US and international standards setters
have adopted this approach.
Yet many finance directors are loath to accept a treatment which results in
lower profits. They also use the uncertain argument that goodwill does not
depreciate in the manner of a physical asset. The ASB enjoys powers of
coercion, but wholesale prosecution of British industry does not seem an
attractive option. It is exploring subtle methods by which goodwill might be
valued so that it can be held on the balance sheet and, if necessary,
depreciated. Whether the board can find a sufficiently water-tight method to
prevent manipulation of accounts remains an open question.
Even a more or less reliable method is unlikely to satisfy those who fear
that revaluation of goodwill would leave UK accounting on a slippery slope.
After all, it seems inconsistent to value acquired goodwill without treating
internally generated intangible assets such as brands in the same way. There
is a danger accountants will end up encroaching on the stock exchange's role
in valuing companies.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

931115

