FT932-13382

FT  23 APR 93 / The Lex Column: Albert Fisher


Mr Stephen Walls wants to develop Albert Fisher into a reliable high-margin
business. But he must wish he was not starting from here. Following a
frenetic acquisition spree in the 1980s, his predecessor bequeathed a
company with a disparate array of commodity food businesses which have an
unhappy vulnerability to natural phenomena. Yesterday's 19 per cent slide in
interim profits only highlights the scale of the challenge: no matter how
well Mr Walls performs, problems such as apple gluts and storm-affected
cockle beds may have a greater influence on Albert Fisher's immediate fate.
Shorn of the benefits of acquisition accounting, the company will try to
produce smooth earnings progress by squeezing more juice from existing
assets and shifting its focus towards higher value-added sectors. This is a
prudent strategy but it will doubtless prove prolonged. In the short term,
the task will be hampered by the adverse impact of sterling's devaluation on
margins and its big exposure to the UK's strong and price-conscious
supermarkets. But Albert Fisher should reap some recovery gains as it
attempts to lift its 4 per cent operating margins back to their historical
peak of 7 per cent. The acquisition of Hunter Saphir will help.
While waiting, shareholders can comfort themselves with Albert Fisher's
sound balance sheet and strong dividend yield. But the company will face a
stiff challenge trying to persuade the market to attach a more serious
rating to its inherently volatile earnings stream.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930423

