FT932-6623

FT  27 MAY 93 / UK Company News: Ex-Savoy manager likely for Forte hotels


   By MICHAEL SKAPINKER, Leisure Industries Correspondent


THE FORTE group is thought to be close to announcing that it has appointed
Mr Willi Bauer, former general manager of the Savoy Hotel, to run its luxury
hotels.
The expected appointment of Mr Bauer comes after Mr Rocco Forte, Forte
chairman, reaffirmed to shareholders this week that he would like to merge
Forte's Exclusive Portfolio of hotels with those of the Savoy group.
The Forte Exclusive hotels are a group of 20 luxury establishments,
including the Grosvenor House and Hyde Park Hotel in London, the Westbury
and Plaza Athenee in New York, the Ritz in Madrid and the George V in Paris.
The appointment of Mr Bauer would represent a remarkable reconciliation with
Mr Forte following acrimonious clashes between the two men during Forte's
attempt to take over the Savoy group during the 1980s. Mr Bauer had run the
Grosvenor House before leaving to become general manager of the Savoy in
1982. He ran the Savoy until 1989.
In 1988, Mr Forte said that Mr Bauer would be sacked if Forte succeeded in
acquiring the Savoy. He said it was ridiculous that Mr Bauer should have
been paid Pounds 180,000 the previous year. He said that he would have
earned a maximum of Pounds 60,000 if he had still been employed by Forte.
The takeover battle ended with Forte holding a majority of Savoy shares, but
a minority of voting shares. The two sides declared a five-year truce which
ends in November next year. Neither Forte nor Mr Bauer would comment last
night.

The Financial Times


London Page 28

930527

