FT933-9966

FT  06 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: Reed Elsevier


Early days it may be, but the merger between Reed and Elsevier seems to be
developing in the finer traditions of Anglo-Dutch combines, such as Royal
Dutch Shell and Unilever, than the more fraught Anglo-French liaisons such
as CarnaudMetalbox and Arjo Wiggins Appleton. A 15 per cent increase in
interim net income on sales up just 1 per cent at constant exchange rates
illustrates the smooth progress. This is especially reassuring as Reed
Elsevier has received little help from its markets and no rationalisation
profits from the merger so far.
A closer look through the microscope, though, reveals a few worrying
blemishes. A 50 per cent profits fall in medical publishing is a smear on
the slide suggesting suppositions about the stability of underlying earnings
may be exaggerated. Conversely, the muted US recovery hints that Reed
Elsevier's presumed sensitivity to an advertising upswing may also be
over-rated. Meanwhile, fears about VAT being extended in the UK may worry
shareholders, no matter how limited the longer term impact of such a move
would be. The merger's rationale, though, will only fully prove itself if
Reed Elsevier takes bigger bites out of the publishing industry than either
party could have managed individually. The acquisition of Editions
Techniques is a tasty appetiser. It may be supplemented later this year if
Official Airline Guides can be secured. But until such promise is realised,
the company's shares may do no more than track the sector.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

930806

