FT934-10184

FT  06 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: UK gilts


Index-linked gilts took on some water yesterday, but they still look
something of a haven in the latest bond market storm. That may seem curious
given the muted inflationary expectations in this week's Bank of England
inflation report. But since index-linked offer automatic protection against
inflation, the trading appeal relates to the trend of real interest rates.
Whatever happens to the US bond markets, weak economic conditions in Europe
may see lower real rates on this side of the Atlantic. That would help
index-linked gilts.
Besides, index-linked have a certain attraction relative to equities, which
also constitute an inflation hedge. The yield on the FT-A All-share index is
now only around 50 basis points more than index-linked. That may entice some
equity investors to switch into index-linked. It should be consolation for
the really nervous, though, that the relationship looks much less bad for
equities than it did in 1987. Then shares actually yielded a full percentage
point less than index-linked.
These short-term factors might have made index-linked even more attractive
were it not for continuing worries about liquidity. The market still lacks
trading depth: once committed, investors may need to look to the long-term.
That is why increased issuance by the Bank of England is food for thought.
Index-linked paper is cheap finance for an institution which believes it can
conquer inflation. Long-term holders are betting against the new governor's
chances of success.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931106

