FT934-11166

FT  02 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Queens Moat Houses


It is a fair bet that Weatherall Green and Smith will not be seated next to
Jones Lang Wootton at the chartered surveyors' Christmas bash. The striking
disparity in the two firms' valuations of Queens Moat Houses' hotels has
caused a furore among property valuers. It is of particular alarm to the
owners of QMH's Pounds 215m mortgage debenture stock. They previously
believed their stock was generously secured on several of QMH's hotels. They
now discover that the revised value of that property no longer covers the
nominal value of the outstanding debenture stock.
Undoubtedly, there are particular difficulties in valuing hotels. A hotel's
income stream can vary enormously depending on market conditions, and future
forecasts rely on subjective opinion. How that income stream is capitalised
to give a present value is also fraught with difficulties. In QMH's case,
these calculations were perhaps especially tricky. The fixed fees QMH
derived from many of its hotels may have induced a false sense of security
about future income flow.
Nevertheless, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors should urgently
review its valuation procedures if the profession is to retain credibility.
As for debenture holders, they will always depend on vigilant and active
trustees to protect their interests. But that task would be greatly
simplified if borrowers were obliged to provide prompt and full disclosure
about valuation criteria. That may raise issues of commercial sensitivity.
But it would also provide its own rewards: those revealing such information
should be able to secure funds more cheaply.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931102

