FT934-11377

FT  01 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Ofwat's water works


Next Thursday is an important day for the UK water industry: Ofwat will
produce the methodology for calculating price caps up to the year 2000. The
market will probably focus closely on the rate of return that water
companies are allowed on new investment. The industry seems resigned to an
outcome towards the lower end of the 6.5 to 7.5 per cent range suggested by
the Monopolies and Mergers Commission for British Gas's pipelines business.
Ofwat will probably also disclose its method for measuring the companies'
asset base. These are the main theoretical tools for setting price limits in
the second half of the decade.
The snag is that Ofwat may have to bridge a gap between theory and practice.
A lowish rate of return would leave companies such as South West and North
West with weakened balance sheets. Ofwat is therefore likely to leave open
the option of more relaxed price limits from some companies to keep interest
cover in shape. But it seems too much to hope that the regulator will say
how far it thinks each company's financial ratios might be stretched.
Without a steer on that point, judging the final outcome of the review will
still be a matter of guesswork.
Exactly how much capital expenditure will have to be financed through the
second half of the decade will also remain uncertain. The government's
missive on the subject last month left open the possibility of renegotiating
Europe's tougher water purity standards. That might cut Anglian's spending
plans by anything up to Pounds 600m over five years. But negotiating with
Britain's EC partners takes time. The chances are that the industry will be
back talking with the regulator even after a settlement has been reached on
the final price caps.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

931101

