FT934-8562

FT  15 NOV 93 / Arts: City of London Sinfonia


   By JOHN ALLISON


Saturday's Queen Elizabeth Hall concert by the City of London Sinfonia made
up a retrospective of music by three popular contemporary composers, Arvo
Part, John Tavener and Alfred Schnittke. It was a long evening by any
standards, doubly so because of the static nature of most of the music.
Part and Tavener have been dubbed, uncharitably but not inaccurately, 'holy
minimalists', which reflects the musical and spiritual inspiration each
derives from Orthodox Christianity. Their minimalism is not of the Steve
Reich 'tape-loop' brand, rather it is based on rich, slowly-shifting
sonorities that suggest religious fervour.
Part's short, serene Cantus in memoriam Benjamin Britten, which opened the
programme, explores a single idea and succeeds on its own mystic terms,
though these are limited. His 30-minute Tabula Rasa (composed, like the
Cantus, in 1977) is another matter: a clean slate only in its emptiness, it
essays some titillating effects at length - modern music for people who
think they don't like modern music.
Tavener's music is equally unchallenging. While it is hard to doubt the
sincerity of the composer's inspiration, the appearance of more cello music
so soon after the great commercial success of his Protecting Veil raises a
question.
Ironically, it was in the work of the maverick Schnittke that music of
substance was reached, his Concerto Grosso No. 1 seeming like an oasis of
dissonance. The concert ended with Schnittke's jokey Moz-Art a la Haydn.
Like all the pieces in the programme, it requires a steady, metronomic
conductor, and found one in Richard Hickox.

The Financial Times


London Page 17

931115

