FT933-5184

FT  04 SEP 93 / The Lex Column: Halifax gets the habit


By severing its tie with Standard Life and stepping into the ring as a life
insurer, Halifax is treading a well-worn path. The links between life
companies and building societies are eroding steadily. With the outlook for
the housing market dull and deposit rates low, building societies have a
clear incentive to capture long-term savings for themselves. Since banks are
thinking the same, though, the market is starting to look crowded.
That points to a squeeze, although which of the life insurers will suffer
most remains unclear. Halifax Life will inherit 12m potential customers and
a strong brand image from its parent. Natwest's new life operation has made
a strong start this year for similar reasons. But while Natwest has farmed
out investment management to an experienced manager, Halifax remains coy
about its plans in this regard. Unless it can show a decent investment
record, the benefits of low-cost distribution through its branch network
will not work to the advantage of customers.
If the investment side can be cracked, Halifax and other high street
purveyors of life assurance have a strong hand. Full disclosure of
commissions and administrative expenses demanded by government may
strengthen it further. While Standard Life will sorely miss the business
sold through Halifax, it is well entrenched among independent financial
advisers. It is also large enough to develop a brand image of its own.
Smaller mutuals look more vulnerable. Among recent converts to
bancassurance, only Abbey National has thought it worth buying a mutual as a
way into the market.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

930904

