FT934-8550

FT  15 NOV 93 / Observer: Does Jan not love Bob?


What does Jan Leschly, the incoming chief executive of SmithKline Beecham,
think of the current incumbent, Bob Bauman, who steps down next April? Not a
lot, if a private note from brokers UBS Phillips & Drew is to be believed.
The note, which has been leaked to the press and is based on an interview
two UBS analysts had with Leschly last month, argues that now that the 1989
merger of SmithKline Beckman and Beecham has been completed Bauman is not
the best person to generate the organic growth that the new group needs.
No great surprise there. But then it goes on to summarise Leschly's alleged
views on Bauman which range from an assertion that he has no understanding
of how the drug industry works to his lack of strategic skills. Even worse,
Bauman is said to be not good at motivating staff and too anxious about City
views. Vicious stuff.
An embarrassed Andrew Porter, the UBS analyst who penned the contribution to
UBS's UK Healthcare Daily Comment, now says that his views were just
'jottings' and did not represent what was said at the meeting. Perhaps, but
why commit them to paper and include a prominent warning to 'keep the
controversial points to yourself and not let SKB know the comments came from
us.'?
Even assuming that Jan Leschly's views about Bauman have been completely
misrepresented, the case raises the question of whether stock broking
analysts should be briefing their firm's salesmen with ideas that they are
not prepared to justify in public.

The Financial Times


London Page 19

931115

