FT932-3317

FT  15 JUN 93 / Parliament and Politics: NAO reviews grant schools


   By JOHN AUTHERS


FEARS about financial controls in grant-maintained schools have led the
National Audit Office to start annual inspections of the schools, the
Commons public accounts committee was told yesterday.
Sir Geoffrey Holland, the permanent secretary to the Department for
Education, said he welcomed the inspections, which followed a highly
critical NAO report. The report found that some schools had only one person
controlling cash and payroll, with no independent checks. Mr Robert Sheldon,
chairman of the committee, described such practices as a 'recipe for
disaster'. He also criticised the control of cash balances by
grant-maintained schools, which retained Pounds 10.7m in cash at the end of
the financial year.
Sir Geoffrey said that Pounds 4.5m of that cash had been privately raised.
Officials from the department faced criticism over double funding for
grant-maintained schools. Double funding meant that schools opting out early
had received Pounds 13.6m more than they would have done by staying under
local authority control.
The department said the funding followed the 'deliberate decision of
ministers'.
Sir Geoffrey admitted the department's officials had criticised the
financial controls of the Grant-Maintained Schools Centre, which provided
services for opted-out schools. He said: 'I asked my chief accounting
officers to visit the centre. They made criticisms, and the centre has begun
to implement their recommendations.'

The Financial Times


London Page 12

930615

