FT933-10181

FT  05 AUG 93 / UK Company News: CT may take legal advice on payments


   By PEGGY HOLLINGER


CELLULAR Telecom Holdings may take independent legal advice over a deferred
consideration due to shareholders linked to Mr Clive Smith. The Midlands
entrepreneur's family owns 19 per cent of the mobile communications company.
Mr Edward Clucas, chairman, said he was considering the step following
questions from shareholders at yesterday's annual meeting over the deferred
share payment.
CT is the child of a reverse takeover in 1990 by the then quoted company,
Image Store.
Image Store acquired CT for Pounds 3.74m in shares, plus deferred
performance-related payments, from Mr Smith's family interests, Mr Robert
Pollock, a former CT director, and Mr Clucas, former financial adviser to Mr
Smith.
Companies which have been linked to Mr Smith are under investigation by the
Serious Fraud Office. Mr Pollock resigned from CT in June following
publicity over the collapse of Alpine Double Glazing, where he was chairman.
Shareholders also questioned CT on its plans. Mr Clucas said he remained
'reasonably confident' about prospects. It is understood CT is aiming for a
flotation in the next two years.
The meeting heard that CT had returned pre-tax profits of Pounds 516,760 for
the year to September 30, against a Pounds 369,070 loss in the previous 18
months.
The profit was struck after lower administrative expenses, eased by a drop
in the depreciation of intangible assets from Pounds 220,272 to Pounds
16,949. The return was also helped by the absence of last year's Pounds
876,083 provision for bad debts. Turnover was Pounds 7.1m (Pounds 11.5m).
The company did not purchase any new cellular telephones during the year.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930805

