FT934-8440

FT  16 NOV 93 / Puerto Rico seeks closer US links


   By CANUTE JAMES


   SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO


MR Miguel Hernandez Agosto, leader of Puerto Rico's opposition Popular
Democratic party, is to ask the US Congress to expand the island's
'commonwealth' link with the US by increasing tax incentives for industry,
removing limits on food stamps and imposing tariffs to protect agriculture.
This follows Sunday's referendum in which Puerto Ricans indicated by a slim
margin that they favoured an enhancement of their current quasi-colonial
ties with the US, rather than becoming the 51st state of the union. The
third option of political independence was soundly rejected.
Figures published yesterday by the State Elections Commission indicated that
the commonwealth option received 48.4 per cent of the 1.7m votes cast,
statehood was supported by 46.2 per cent and independence by 4.4 per cent.
The result was a setback for Mr Pedro Rossello, the island's governor, whose
incumbent New Progressive party advocated statehood.
'The people have spoken on status and I heed the result,' Mr Rossello said.
'It was my commitment to hold this plebiscite, and I assume full
responsibility for its results.' The governor said he would pursue his
government's programmes based on the mandate he received in last year's
election.
Mr Agosto said he would begin negotiations soon with congressional leaders
in Washington to extend and make permanent tax incentives which have brought
mainland manufacturing companies to the island, but which are subject to
frequent review and changes in Washington.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

931116

