FT934-8361

FT  16 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: BA above the clouds


The clouds are beginning to part for British Airways, which is just as well,
considering the recent surge in its share price. The carrier's half-year
figures confirmed several encouraging trends, with a 2 per cent rise in
premium traffic being the most comforting. The global balance of supply and
demand appears to be returning to some semblance of sanity. BA, too, is
moving back towards equilibrium. After increasing capacity by 13 per cent
this year, BA will add just 4 per cent next, making it easier to fill seats
and raise prices as traffic recovers.
Some dark clouds remain on BA's horizon, however, notably surrounding its
stakes in associated airlines. BA's investment in TAT is currently looking
none too clever. Between them TAT and Deutsche BA lost some Pounds 32m in
the first half. Remedial action is promised. But any aggressive cost-cutting
at TAT may prove politically difficult after the Air France fiasco.
Meanwhile, Lufthansa can only emerge as a more formidable competitor as it
trundles towards privatisation. With its investments in USAir and Qantas yet
to prove their worth, BA's globalisation thrust remains a high-risk strategy
with no guarantee of financial return.
Investors lacking the head for such dizzy heights may prefer BAA, which
reports today. BAA's operational gearing may not be as high as BA's and its
shares are relatively dearer. But comfort can be drawn from an airport
operator which keeps its feet firmly on the ground and has a quasi-monopoly.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

931116

