FT933-12686

FT  23 JUL 93 / Cagliari kept in jail a month without being questioned


   By ROBERT GRAHAM


   ROME


MR Gabriele Cagliari, the former chairman of Eni, the Italian state oil
concern, who committed suicide in his Milan prison cell on Tuesday, was kept
waiting at one stage during his imprisonment for a month without any
interrogation by magistrates.
This wait was revealed yesterday by Mr Giovanni Conso, the justice minister,
in a statement to the Senate on the circumstances surrounding Mr Cagliari's
death.
It immediately fuelled the debate over the magistrates' use and abuse of
their powers of detention. However, Mr Francesco Borelli, the Milan
attorney-general, rejected criticism that Mr Cagliari had been forgotten in
jail. He said during this time his evidence had been cross-checked and other
witnesses heard in connection with the cases.
Mr Cagliari was arrested on March 8 on charges of corruption and falsifying
accounts relating to a power station contract won by an Eni subsidiary. On
two subsequent occasions, on April 24 and May 26, further similar charges
were pressed relating to different episodes of corruption. According to Mr
Conso, the 67 year-old former Eni chairman was not questioned from June 15
to July 17.
In another development underscoring the judicial problems raised by the
nationwide corruption investigation, the appeal's court has settled an
acrimonious dispute between Milan and Rome magistrates. The dispute centred
on which set of magistrates exercised responsibility for a case of
corruption involving the ministry of posts and the allocation of television
licences.
The appeals court declared Rome had the authority because the bulk of the
investigation originated there. The row had earlier seen the magistrates
acting as rivals, with one person being apparently arrested on separate
occasions for a similar offence by both Milan and Rome.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

930723

