FT932-67

FT  30 JUN 93 / International Company News: American Express names new
president


   By PATRICK HARVERSON


   NEW YORK


AMERICAN Express, the US travel and financial services group, reshuffled its
senior management yesterday, appointing Mr Jeffrey Stiefler president of the
company.
Mr Stiefler, who was chief executive of American Express's financial
services subsidiary IDS, takes over as president from chief executive Mr
Harvey Golub, who assumes the title of chairman from Mr Richard Furlaud.
American Express said Mr Furlaud, an outside director of the company since
1972, has been elected chairman of the executive committee of the board of
directors.
The changes represent a consolidation of the management installed in
February following the departure of Mr James Robinson, who had run American
Express for 15 years. After a protracted battle, Mr Robinson was forced out
because of the poor performance of the company's various divisions, and of
its share price.
The appointment of a new president, and the move of Mr Furlaud to chairman
of the executive committee, are designed to spread some of the management
load. Previously, American Express was being run solely by Mr Golub, with Mr
Furlaud's support.
Mr Stiefler's promotion is seen as a reward for his work at IDS, which
during the group's recent troubles with its loss-making securities brokerage
operations and struggling credit card business, remained a reliable source
of profits. In 1992, IDS contributed Dollars 243m to the group's overall
earnings of Dollars 436m.
This is the second time in a few years that IDS has proved a stepping stone
for management within American Express. In 1991, Mr Golub, then head of IDS,
was promoted to president of the parent group.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

930630

