FT932-6658

FT  27 MAY 93 / The Lex Column: France


The details of France's massive privatisation programme highlight how the
process is being driven by pragmatic politicians with financial problems to
solve rather than wild-eyed ideologues with dogmas to prove. Despite Mr
Edmond Alphandery's free-market training at the University of Chicago, the
economy minister has adopted a typically Gallic approach. The state will
retain significant influence over its 21 liberated offspring by means of
extensive golden shares and privileged shareholder groups. Such measures
will doubtless irritate investors reared in Anglo-Saxon markets but are
unlikely to deter them if the pricing is right. This may prove tricky given
recent wobbles in the economy and stock market.
The government may eventually raise up to FFr500bn selling off the biggest
of the 2,600 companies it owns. This will make a big dent in France's
national debt. It will also provide more flexibility in softening the
effects of its recent budgetary rigour. The government is now busy devising
neat ways of attracting domestic investors through tax incentives. This
week's FFr40bn government bond, which can be converted into equity in
privatised companies, represents another ingenious enticement.
Yet the real stimulus for investors would be further interest rate cuts.
This would simultaneously suck funds into the market by decreasing the
attraction of cash while reassuring investors that the damage to the
underlying economy would ease. A gesture from the Bundesbank may yet prove
the French government's saving grace.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930527

