FT932-6982

FT  26 MAY 93 / The Lex Column: Thorns in the side


The stock market is unsure whether to be seduced by Thorn EMI's big idea.
The company is currently suggesting that substantial value can be realised
from rationalising Thorn's sprawling interests. That would leave a a
finely-focused music and rentals business. Thorn's latest results certainly
highlight the charms of its core companies. Boosted by Virgin, the music arm
lifted operating margins 2 percentage points to 13 per cent, contributing 52
per cent of Thorn's Pounds 377m of trading profits. Shorn of its peripheral
businesses, Thorn's share rating should theoretically soar towards the
heights commanded by pure music companies, such as Polygram.
But it would not do to grow too excited. Thorn's remaining business laggards
are suffering badly and may yet inflict more pain. Profits in the defence
arm have all but collapsed. Rumbelows remains troublesome and, though
improved, the lighting business is still limping. These interests may well
keep Thorn's share rating pegged to the market average for a while to come.
The longer term worry, however, is that grand plans too long in gestation
have a nasty habit of going out of fashion before fruition - as ICI's
experience suggests. The current regulatory interest in UK CD prices may
prove no more than a minor irritant; nevertheless, it could presage greater
pressures to come. The regulator's visible hand may well fail to cut the
music industry's fat margins; the market's invisible hand, though, may wield
a sharper knife.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930526

