FT934-11794

FT  29 OCT 93 / The Lex Column: Reuters


The doubts surrounding the future of the Globex futures trading system are a
smudge on Reuters' recent record. Globex has proved itself technically, and
experience with the system on Matif has shown it can operate successfully.
But tensions between Reuters and the two Chicago exchanges, which have
jointly developed Globex, have hindered its expansion and are now
jeopardising its future viability.
The current relationship is untenable and must be altered. To succeed,
Globex needs significantly to increase trading volumes. This will require
the inclusion of other exchanges. But some of them, including Liffe,
justifiably worry about surrendering control of their products to the
Chicago exchanges, which are their main competitors. The hope is that
forthcoming talks will break the log-jam with Reuters gaining control of the
day-to-day operations. The Chicago exchanges have little room for manoeuvre
given Globex's current losses.
Even if the talks break down and Reuters exercises its option to pull out of
Globex next April, the financial damage will be limited. Reuters has already
spent and written off an estimated Dollars 75m developing the system.
Moreover, Globex is the least important of Reuters' new generation of
products. Instinet is proving its worth. The Dealing 2000/2 foreign exchange
system also appears to be acquiring critical mass. Nonetheless, a failure to
capitalise on Globex would represent a serious blow to Reuters' reputation
and ability to transfer its technological skills into new markets.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

931029

