FT931-3890

FT  13 MAR 93 / Horton's BP pay-off revives anger


   By LUCY KELLAWAY


MR ROBERT Horton received Pounds 780,000 in compensation and Pounds 722,740
in a special pension payment on his departure as BP's chairman and chief
executive last year, the company's annual report showed yesterday.
The total pay-off of Pounds 1.53m has revived shareholder anger over
severance pay. Institutions questioned whether top executives should be on
three-year service contracts, although they said Mr Horton's case was not
one of the worst.
Under the present system the service contract is taken as the basis for
calculating severance pay. Until recently the contract for top executives
was frequently as long as five years, although the Cadbury committee on
corporate governance last year recommended a maximum of three years.
Mr Paddy Linaker, chief executive of M&G, the fund management company, said:
'We think Cadbury was on the lenient side - one year is perfectly adequate
in most cases.'
The size of a pay-off is adjusted according to the probability of the
director getting a new job at the same salary. This leaves some room for
argument.
Mr Chris Osman, of solicitors Clifford Chance, said: 'There is no such thing
as the going rate for severance pay. For a three-year contract, 18 months to
two years might be reasonable for people not eminently employable
elsewhere.'
In 1991 Mr Horton received a basic salary of Pounds 480,000 and a bonus of
Pounds 307,000.
BP's payment to Mr Horton means that he has joined a select club of
executives who have picked up seven-figure sums after parting company with
their employers.
The other members include Sir Ralph Halpern, the former head of Burton who
received about Pounds 2m; and Mr Peter Scott who received about Pounds 2m
when he left Aegis, the media buying group.

The Financial Times


London Page 5

930313

