FT932-6981

FT  26 MAY 93 / The Lex Column: UK regulation


Anyone anticipating radical proposals from Mr Andrew Large's review of
investment regulation will be disappointed, or perhaps relieved. But it
still requires an act of faith to believe the two-tier system of statutory
and self-regulation can be made to work by sharpening the regulatory style.
Mr Large is surely right that the Securities and Investments Board must, as
lead regulator, spend more time supervising the self-regulatory
organisations and less on detailed rule-making. Even so, the onus will be on
Mr Large to stamp out the mentality which places greater emphasis on
standard-setting than enforcement.
The price of avoiding fresh legislation may be wider market supervision.
Keeping the lid on insider dealing and market manipulation will probably
involve extending trade reporting to areas currently beyond the reach of the
regulators. The proposed central database for trade reporting might, for
example, extend to over-the-counter derivatives. These free-wheeling areas
of the capital markets will need convincing that such a measure is not the
thin end of the regulatory wedge. With the Taurus fiasco in mind, the City
will equally require assurances that the project is not another
technological white elephant.
Whether a tough new attitude at SIB will extend to other areas of the market
remains an open question. A less indulgent view in matters of market
transparency will not win friends in the industry.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930526

