FT934-11167

FT  02 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: BT's cheap chatline


BT's decision to turn price cuts required by the regulator into a marketing
drive deftly makes a virtue of necessity. Its RPI-7.5 per cent price control
is a heavy ball and chain to carry. BT was also a little unfortunate that
the low inflation rate in the month when the irons were clamped on has made
the burden heavier - the company has to cut prices by Pounds 500m this year.
Yet it chose to announce only Pounds 150m of the reduction yesterday. From a
marketing perspective, it perhaps makes sense to spin out the good news and
ram home one message at a time. It soothes the profit and loss account to go
slow on the implementation of lower tariffs, as the regulator has already
noted. BT is well within its rights. Yet upsetting Oftel might be unwise.
The weighting of price cuts is significant. BT has focused on domestic
customers as competition from Mercury and cable companies increases. Since
competition in business services has already cut margins, defending or
acquiring domestic customers is the logical next step. Further initiatives
will probably be in a similar vein. Such price initiatives may blunt the
erosion of BT's domestic base and slow Mercury's advance. Yet if the focus
is away from the business market, its impact on Mercury's profitability
should be limited.
As Mr Michael Hepher, BT's managing director, points out, telephone systems
have high fixed costs. They also require high capital spending. Any
increased use of the system is thus welcome. To prosper, BT is going to need
to use good marketing to stimulate those domestic call volumes now that the
watchdog is biting and the competitive wolf is at the door.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931102

