FT934-11175

FT  02 NOV 93 / Observer: Sir Peter, QED


One might have thought Sir Peter Middleton, donnish former permanent
secretary to the Treasury, would have delighted Bank of England directors
last week with his wholly unexpected remarks about the desirability of Bank
independence. But the terms in which he couched his remarks have done
nothing to endear the waspish ex-mandarin to several directors of the court.
In evidence to the Commons Treasury and Civil Service Committee last week,
Sir Peter opined that the composition of the court would have to be changed
if the Bank were to assume control in setting interest rates. In particular,
all the members would have to be committed to fighting inflation, he went
on, 'unlike the present mob who look rather like a pressure group in the
opposite direction'.
Sir Peter, who did not return telephone calls to elaborate on this
statement, was doubtless referring to the widespread assumption that many
industrialists are less than fanatical about keeping inflation at bay,
believing that a degree of price pressure may oil the wheels of the economy.
False, cry the outside directors. Sir Christopher Hogg, chairman of Reuters,
says he considers the remarks 'very strange', while Sir John 'Chips'
Keswick, chairman of Hambros Bank, says he has 'never met an industrialist
either on the court or off it who doesn't think inflation is appalling'.
Another court member thought Sir Peter was being 'fatuous'. The
longest-serving Bank non-executive, Sir Adrian Cadbury, termed Sir Peter's
comments 'totally incorrect'.
Sir Peter does have the occasional tendency to upset people, which may have
been one of the things that counted against him when he was supposedly in
the running for the governorship of the Bank before Eddie George was chosen.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

931102

