FT932-13

FT  30 JUN 93 / Canadian wages under pressure


   By BERNARD SIMON


   TORONTO


RESIDENTS of Toronto will be unable to pay their municipal taxes or apply
for marriage licences on three Fridays this summer - all in the name of
holding down the wage bill of Canada's biggest city.
In what is becoming a countrywide pattern of fiscal restraint, Toronto will
close its municipal offices and halt all but essential services on these
days, forcing about 9,000 municipal workers to take three days' unpaid
leave.
The recession has forced many Canadian businesses either to freeze or roll
back wages. But the squeeze is gradually extending to the public sector,
despite the presence of powerful unions.
Statistics Canada reported that wage rises in April averaged 0.2 per cent a
year. The small rise was largely due to a wage freeze on federal civil
servants. Ontario's provincial government is in the process of negotiating a
three-year freeze with unions representing over 900,000 public-sector
workers.
The diminishing upward pressure on wages is one reason for economists'
optimism that inflation in Canada will remain dormant for at least the next
year or two. The consumer price index edged up by 1.8 per cent in the year
to April, and is not expected to climb more than 2-3 per cent this year or
in 1994.
Public office-holders are also under intense scrutiny to limit pay
increases. Leaders of Canada's two main political parties have expressed
displeasure over a vote by the Senate, the non-elected upper house, to give
each member an extra CDollars 6,000 (USDollars 4,687) a year in travel and
accommodation allowances.

The Financial Times


International Page 7

930630

