FT932-3263

FT  15 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: Currencies


It was always a safe bet that the yen would appreciate in 1993. The size of
Japan's current account surplus and the intensity of US displeasure meant
the currency could hardly respond in any other way. The more difficult
assessment is to decide when enough is enough. The yen has risen by more
than 15 per cent since the start of the year, a move whose deflationary
impact more or less wipes out the effect of the last two stimulatory fiscal
packages. As the stock market becomes edgy over growth prospects, pressure
is bound to mount for another rate cut and more fiscal pump priming, which
might be seen as a fitting gesture from the hosts at next month's economic
summit.
That, though, may overstate the extent of the authorities' alarm. Japanese
exporters know how to cope with a sharply rising exchange rate. The Bank of
Japan has been intervening actively, but it has hardly been in a hurry to
cut rates. There is no guarantee either that lower rates or another
stimulatory package would boost consumption enough to make a big dent in the
current account surplus.
More important to the exchange market may be the course of trade
negotiations with the US, in which Japan is fighting a rearguard action to
escape the imposition of quantitative targets for imports. Were Japan's
resolve to falter, the yen could fall back again: a trade agreement with the
US would give Washington less reason for talking the currency up. A rate
cut, by contrast, could be seen as confirmation of the currency's inherent
strength.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930615

