FT933-9965

FT  06 AUG 93 / The Lex Column: Gold


Gold's rise this year was fuelled by the well-publicised behaviour of a few
investors such as Sir James Goldsmith. But it had an underlying
justification, too, in the form of the imbalance between growing demand and
shrinking supply. So it is not surprising that World Gold Council figures
showing demand growth tapering off caused some bulls to have second
thoughts. Anecdotal evidence suggests there has been particular resistance
in developing countries to prices over Dollars 400 an ounce. Gold may now
require a relatively long period of consolidation before establishing itself
comfortably above that level.
Sentiment was further undermined yesterday by rumours of a large official
sale from China. Such rumours are notoriously difficult to pin down in a
market as opaque as gold. But they have at least the ring of plausibility,
given that country's need to mobilise liquid foreign exchange. A weak local
currency and the clampdown on the overheated domestic economy is a further
negative factor. It has stifled the once active trade in smuggled gold for
the retail market.
Jewellery demand in the developing world may slowly pick up again once
buyers become accustomed to higher prices. The enthusiasm with which bullion
greeted the latest ERM crisis suggests lower interest rates in Europe would
also help. Not only would the cost of holding gold fall; economic recovery
might also revive sliding jewellery demand. The determination of European
governments to hold the line on interest rates, though, suggests such
comforting news will be slow in coming.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

930806

