FT931-4129

FT  12 MAR 93 / People: Philips promotes Kevin Kennedy


Heavy losses last year at the Dutch electronics group Philips have
precipitated a round of senior management changes as a result of which Kevin
Kennedy, currently running Philips in the UK, moves back to the Netherlands
and is promoted on to the group management committee, his fourth job change
during the six years he has been at the company.
One of the priorities of Jan Timmer, installed as president in 1990, has
been to internationalise the management of Philips. There are now only four
Dutch members of the 13-strong group management committee, and Scots-born
Kennedy (right) becomes only the second Brit after Dudley Eustace, the
finance director, who joined from British Aerospace last year, to attain
that level of seniority.
Kennedy, 55, takes charge of the management of domestic appliances and
personal care products, a division he notes has been profitable for many
years. 'That will make a nice change of pace,' he commented this week. He
succeeds Jan Tollenaar, also 55, who has been moved into the newly created
position of chief operating officer within the problem consumer electronics
division.
Joining the group in 1986 from Honeywell, Kennedy quickly established
himself on the fast-track - being both the first British national appointed
a managing director as well as the first to run the UK operation. He had
only been doing the latter job for two years, having previously been in the
Netherlands as chairman and senior managing director of the information
systems division.
Another fellow countryman, John Whybrow, presently responsible for
industrial affairs in the UK, moves into Kennedy's seat.

The Financial Times


London Page 13

930312

