FT934-10187

FT  06 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Bonds shaken and stirred


There is little doubt that it was the drop in US bond prices which sent
yesterday's shiver around world equity and bond markets. Much harder to
assess is whether this is a genuine turning point or simply a correction
after the strong gains of recent months. In theory there is no reason to get
particularly alarmed. Inflation is hardly rampant, even in the US. Economic
conditions throughout the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development are so weak that it is difficult to imagine any country actually
raising short term rates. That points more to a correction in the US bond
market which had previously overshot rather than to a sustained fall. If so,
other markets should soon regain their poise.
Yet complex psychological factors are at work. The main force driving equity
and bond prices higher has been US investors moving out of cash in search of
better returns. Even the relatively modest climb in US bond yields will have
brought some of those investors a capital loss. Now they have a further
reminder that markets can go down as well as up. When that thought
dominates, cash becomes attractive again.
With an element of fear back in the equation, it looks unlikely that US
investors will stray abroad in such large numbers again. At the very least
that should dampen world market recovery hopes. Luckily the UK had already
decided not to hold a gilt auction this month, which means it will not be
putting foreign investors to too much of a test. But a vicious downward
spiral could develop on a broader basis if prices erode and more money is
pulled out of shares and bonds. That risk would be aggravated if the Gatt
round collapses, posing an additional threat to economic growth.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931106

