FT934-8581

FT  15 NOV 93 / People: BZW hires Bruce from JP Morgan


BZW is overhauling its internal risk control mechanisms by bringing in an
extra layer of management with the hiring of Andrew Bruce, 44, currently the
member of JP Morgan's European management group responsible for credit risk
throughout Europe. He will join Barclay's investment banking operation from
the beginning of next year.
David Band, BZW chief executive, says that the two institutions he most
respects for their credit risk management skills are his own former stable,
JP Morgan, and GE Capital. Band has just brought Patrick O'Sullivan from the
latter into the new post of head of bank finance, following a transfer of
control of large corporate lending from the bank to BZW.
Band was chairman of JP Morgan Securities in 1987 and 1988 when Bruce was
head of credit and counterparty risk there. He says that when he was at
Morgan, its officials in turn looked up to GE Capital in the risk analysis
department.
Financial institutions have become increasingly aware of the elements of
credit, as opposed to market, risk in growing areas such as swaps and
derivatives. Previously, BZW's credit risk exposure had been the
responsibility of Peter Bingham, chief credit officer, who reported to chief
financial officer Oliver Stocken. When Stocken moved up to become group
finance director, Bingham reported to Lord Camoys as an interim measure, but
Camoys retires next April. Now Bingham will work for Bruce, who in turn will
report directly to Band.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

931115

