FT934-11374

FT  01 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: British Gas


Reports that British Gas considered breaking itself up before it went to the
Monopolies and Mergers Commission will surprise those who have heard the
company argue so vigorously against the idea. In part, its opposition
represented understandable negotiating tactics while the MMC was
deliberating. Yet the way in which the company has switched ground threatens
to undermine its negotiating position. British Gas has thought about
break-up, fought it tooth and nail, accepted it with alacrity when financial
inducements were offered and now seems prepared to drop the idea since it is
getting little support at the Department of Trade and Industry.
The DTI is a keen advocate of competition and wants to see it introduced as
quickly as possible. Yet at a time when VAT is being levied on domestic
fuel, passing the costs of introducing competition on to consumers would
hardly be an attractive political option. If the company's lobbying
credibility is dented, it risks being saddled with competition, falling
market share, a squeeze on profits and no regulatory relief. That would
leave the company no better off than it was before it asked for the MMC
reference.
Shareholders should also be nervous, since if the financial noose were to be
tightened much further, dividend prospects could start to look uncertain.
The consensus may be that appeals to Gas's flotation prospectus can carry
little weight now, but under those circumstances investors could justifiably
conclude that they were sold a pig in a poke.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

931101

