FT933-5181

FT  04 SEP 93 / The Lex Column: Schroders


There is a curious contrast between Schroders and HSBC, the company which it
advised in its successful bid for Midland Bank last year. HSBC's interim
statement on Tuesday ran to 36 pages; Schroders yesterday delivered three
sentences. No public company should treat its shareholders with such
contempt that it refuses a figure for pre-tax profits at the half-way stage.
The omission is worse when that company is worth Pounds 1.3bn and on the
verge of joining the FT-SE 100. Schroders' lame excuse is that it plans to
change all this next year when EC rules will anyway oblige it to reveal its
hidden reserves. By then, it promises to deliver profit figures with some
sectoral break-down even at the interim stage. But while Footsie membership
would bring no formal additional reporting requirements and the stock
exchange is apparently happy with its long tradition of secretiveness, there
is no reason why the bank could not already disclose figures which it has
readily to hand.
The truth is that Schroders is being dragged kicking and screaming into the
modern world of shareholder communications. A position on the lower rungs of
the Footsie is a dubious privilege for a company in a cyclical business like
investment banking. Institutions will add to their holdings when the company
enters the index, only to cut them again if markets turn and the company
drops out. The implication is a volatile share price, made worse in
Schroders' case by the large proportion of the company in firm family hands.
But having grown so large, Schroders may simply have to accept membership of
the club, and the glare of publicity which that entails. It should not be so
bashful when it has little except its strength to hide.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

930904

