FT932-123

FT  30 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: United Newspapers


It is hard to comprehend why a company with interest cover approaching six
times needs to tap shareholders for an additional Pounds 190m to fund
expansion. United's balance sheet gearing of 180 per cent partly explains
it. But that gearing level reflects the thinness of United's shareholders'
funds - at just Pounds 168m - rather than the crushing weight of borrowings.
Like other newspaper companies, United's assets are mostly intangible.
Moreover, the issue will dilute earnings this year given that the money will
initially be used to repay cheap borrowings in the UK and US. United may
have done better simply to sit back and reap the rewards of its Pounds 700m
investment programme. Given the scale of its operational gearing, profits
should certainly swing up sharply when advertising volumes recover. Every
additional Pounds 1 of revenue in United's business magazine division, for
example, translates into 65p of profit.
The 62 per cent rise in United's share price since September may have
provided the main spur for the fund-raising. Few managements can resist such
overt temptations - as the property sector has conclusively proved.
Shareholders may not begrudge United its opportunism if it really can find
suitable earnings-enhancing acquisitions.
The company's record on this front, though, is patchy. The company may also
have missed the floor for asset prices in the US, where it appears most
interested. If United really needs the money, Lord Stevens, its chairman,
should spell out precisely how he plans to spend it.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930630

