FT931-4083

FT  12 MAR 93 / The Lex Column: The Glaxo treatment


Glaxo has a careless way with chief executives. Having lost Mr Bernard
Taylor in 1989 by promoting Dr Ernest Mario, the company has now to explain
the abrupt departure of the latter. One might reasonably wonder whether any
company can afford this attrition of top talent. The chairman who dominates
the business is little more than two years from retirement, but the
succession is as unclear as ever. At least the episode clarifies an issue of
strategy: if ever there was a residual risk of a rights issue to fund a big
acquisition in over-the-counter medicines, that surely departs with Dr
Mario.
Glaxo insists management style rather than strategy was the reason for the
upheaval. The new structure is designed, it says, to devolve responsibility
out of the hands of the chief executive. That amounts to an admission events
were starting to go awry. Glaxo's once stratospheric rating was built on
apparently seamless relations with drugs industry regulators and ruthlessly
efficient marketing. Yet the launch of some new drugs has failed to live up
to the high expectations planted by the company itself. The wrangle with the
US regulator over the marketing of Zantac might equally be taken as a sign
of slippage.
If the reshuffle allows a re-invigorated management to get to grips with
these issues, Glaxo can only benefit. But the company must convince that it
has a credible strategy for OTC medicines - and that it can handle the
succession without further blood-letting - if it is to stand a fighting
chance of making up lost ground.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930312

