FT933-9959

FT  06 AUG 93 / Philips rises 48% after cost controls


   By RONALD VAN DE KROL


   EINDHOVEN


PHILIPS, the Dutch electronics company, reaped the benefits of strict
controls on financial expenses and assets to produce a 48 per cent rise in
net profit before extraordinary items in the second quarter.
The rise, to Fl 117m (Pounds 41m) from Fl 70m a year earlier, was achieved
in spite of a 22 per cent drop in operating profit caused by difficult
conditions in Europe, particularly in consumer electronics and
communications.
Net profit including extraordinaries surged to Fl 1.2bn from Fl 79m a year
earlier. This reflected the previously announced gain of Fl 1.1bn on the
sale of Philips' stake in Matsushita Electronics Corp (MEC) to its joint
venture partner, Matsushita of Japan. Group sales fell 1.3 per cent at Fl
13.5bn.
Mr Dudley Eustace, finance director, was not happy with the continued
pressure on profit margins but rather satisfied with progress made on
reducing inventories, speeding up payments from customers and pruning
working capital. Operating profit fell to Fl 485m from Fl 626m, but this was
matched by a drop in financial expenses to Fl 278m from Fl 411m.
First-half operating profits fell from Fl 1.27bn to Fl 1.05bn while the net
figure rose from Fl 241m to Fl 1.32bn. On the second-quarter figures, Mr
Eustace said excellent results were posted by Philips lighting, domestic
appliances, semi-conductor and medical system businesses, and by PolyGram,
its London-based record and film company.
However, communications systems saw first-half operating profits dwindle to
Fl 55m from Fl 295m. Consumer electronics - Philips' biggest business in
terms of sales - narrowed first-half operating losses to Fl 150m from Fl
177m, helped by the discontinuation of sectors such as personal computers
and magnetic tape for video cassettes. Mr Eustace said the pace of disposals
would accelerate in the second half. He declined to predict full-year
profits or comment on the likelihood of a dividend after a three-year gap.
Philips's ratio of gross debt to group equity fell to 53:47 from 61:39 at
end-1992, partly because of a fall in debt after the Fl 3bn in proceeds from
the MEC sale. Stricter management of trade receivables and other assets
produced a surplus of Fl 1.7bn, taking the overall financing surplus to Fl4
.7bn, compared with a deficit of Fl 1.8bn last year.

The Financial Times


London Page 15

930806

