FT933-12554

FT  23 JUL 93 / Letters to the Editor: Vietnam a serious regional competitor
for Thailand


   From Mr DEREK TONKIN


Sir, William Barnes rightly draws attention to the 'electric' sparkle of
Vietnam today as well as to the dangers which investors face (' 'Beware the
paper in Vietnam tiger' ', July 20). However, he quotes one Bangkok-based
consultant, Chris Bruton, as saying: 'Vietnam now is nothing like as far
advanced as Thailand was in 1973. It's more like Thailand probably was in
1953.'
I was in Thailand during the 1950s and I can assure Mr Bruton that Thailand
then was light years behind Vietnam today. I can also assure Mr Bruton that,
in 1973, South Vietnam was considerably ahead of Thailand in the industrial
field and on a par in business and financial expertise. Today, Vietnam is
well ahead of Thailand in terms of computer sciences, satellite
communications, nuclear research, mathematical studies, literacy and
secondary education.
Because of the war years and serious mistakes in economic policy, Vietnam
has a long, long way to go to catch up with Thailand in terms of
infrastructure and industrial development. There are, however, few
industrialists and businessmen in Thailand who are not acutely conscious
that, delighted as they are to welcome Vietnam into the prosperity of the
rest of south-east Asia by ever closer political and economic association,
Vietnam probably represents for Thailand its most serious regional
competitor for the provision of goods and services, and this much, much
sooner than Mr Bruton might ever imagine.
Derek Tonkin,
British ambassador to Vietnam (1980-82) and to Thailand (1986-89),
Heathfields,
Barry Lane,
Worplesdon,
Guildford, Surrey GU3 3PU

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930723

