FT932-161

FT  30 JUN 93 / People: Pilkington posting


Pilkington, the glass products group whose fortunes have fluctuated in North
America, is sending main board member Peter Grunwell (right) to Toledo,
Ohio, where he will take charge of both American continents, with the
purpose of 'putting him closer to his markets', according to a spokesman
yesterday. It is the first time Pilkington has based a plc director overseas
full-time.
The company denies the move is directly connected with its problems at
Toledo-based Libbey-Owens-Ford (Lof) where chief executive Ronald Skeddle
and two other directors were fired last month after allegedly giving
data-processing contracts to a company they controlled jointly with an Ohio
University business professor. 'The timing is a coincidence. Grunwell's move
is part of a reorganisation of responsibilities of existing board members
which we have been considering for some time.'
Grunwell, 56, has been at Pilkington since 1961. He worked his way up on the
finance side, rising to the position of finance director. In 1990 he then
moved to covering South America, New Zealand, Australia and the Far East.
The latter three geographical regions will now come under Glen Nightingale.
Since the departure of Skeddle, who was not on Pilkington's main board, Lof
chairman Trevor Jones had been running the operation, but the company is now
searching for a chief executive officer. Jones will report to Grunwell.
As a big supplier to General Motors and others, the North American
operation, which represents 31 per cent of group turnover, is highly
dependent on the automotive industry. However it claims to have seen better
results in the first three months of this year.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930630

