FT932-13383

FT  23 APR 93 / The Lex Column: Axa


One might wonder whether Axa increased its dividend yesterday to rub salt
into the wounds of its state-owned competitors. Its share of pain from the
Paris property slump is less than that of UAP and AGF, both of which cut
their pay-outs this week. While all three have had to content themselves
with lower profits from asset sales than usual, UAP and AGF are also the
proud owners of banks with a predilection for property lending. In contrast,
Axa's investment in Equitable Life is a reason to be cheerful.
The US company's share price has more than doubled since Axa bought its
stake last year. The additional Dollars 400m injected this week should help
Equitable's profits recovery by bringing its capital strength into line with
its competitors. That will help win new business. The US life assurance
market should anyway improve in line with the economy. The worry is that
more capital could yet be required. If the likes of Aegon pump extra cash
into their US life operations, Axa will have to choose between following
suit and losing market share.
While its own shares are rising, though, Axa can afford to take a relaxed
view. February's convertible bond to finance investment in Equitable Life
barely interrupted the upward march of the shares. The good performance in
French motor and property insurance evident from yesterday's figures
suggests that adventures abroad have not led to neglect of the domestic
business. The French government might wish Axa, rather than UAP, was on the
privatisation list.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

930423

