FT934-8360

FT  16 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: British Steel


British Steel has reached the limits of what can be achieved by self-help
alone. A return to profit in the first half shows the benefit of
rationalisation, but was achieved with a fair wind nonetheless. Sterling's
devaluation was worth around Pounds 20m at the level of operating profit.
Demand for steel at home was supported by a mini-cycle of stock building
which has petered out since the summer. The joint venture with Avesta
Sheffield in stainless steel flatters the improvement in trading performance
by shifting losses into an associate company.
The future now turns on the thorny questions of state subsidies to
loss-making European producers and closures of uneconomic plant. Without
capacity reduction meaningful price increases are unlikely. Rises introduced
this year are sticking, but average UK steel prices are only now back to the
levels of 1986. The outperformance of British Steel's shares this year
demands something more than a consolidation of these gains.
As a low-cost producer British Steel certainly stands to gain from higher
prices. Restructuring elsewhere might also bring opportunities to put its
balance sheet strength to work. With the share now on a dizzy rating,
though, the downside risks cannot be ignored. Delay in reaching agreement
among governments on subsidies could carry more than an opportunity cost.
Big producers have shown uncommon discipline on pricing, but that common
front must be vulnerable to cracks if demand in continental Europe continues
to slide.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

931116

