FT934-8758

FT  13 NOV 93 / The Lex Column: Infrastructure projects


Consider this dilemma. Investment funds are currently stuffed with cash
seeking out attractive investment opportunities. The UK government,
meanwhile, is borrowing too much but is eager to initiate infrastructure
projects. You might think it would be possible to satisfy both desires by
encouraging private sector investment in public sector projects. Yet further
delays in building the Pounds 2.6bn Channel tunnel rail link emphasise how
difficult it is to translate this idea into practice.
The stumbling block is over the transfer of risk. Although the government
has spent more than Pounds 300m on the rail project, it still has to agree
on a definite route and pass the necessary legislation. Yet at this early
stage in the exercise, private sector involvement is already being sought.
That may make sense from a design point of view. But it complicates the
financial equations. If the private sector is expected to carry substantial
risk, it will expect venture capital rewards - at which the Treasury will
doubtless baulk. So the rail link can probably only make progress if the
government indemnifies the private sector against a large measure of future
risk. That, though, would result in private control with public risk - the
worst of all possible worlds.
One solution would be for the government to pump prime the project and then
solicit private sector bids to complete the link. The Royal Bank of
Scotland's economists have suggested an ingenious way of adapting the
Business Expansion Scheme to allow the government to raise such funds
without much drain on the public purse. With minimal risk, private investors
could then anticipate acceptable utility-type returns.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

931113

