FT933-12806

FT  22 JUL 93 / The Lex Column: Coal's black future


It is hard not to feel a pang of sympathy for British Coal's management. The
corporation has made striking productivity improvements in recent years
without compromising safety. Overhead costs have been halved over the past
four years while colliery costs per tonne have fallen by 41 per cent in real
terms since 1985. Yet, as its annual results make clear, British Coal still
has a huge way to go before it could become a viable private sector
enterprise. Every move towards that goal, meanwhile, is picked apart in the
political piranha pool.
Undoubtedly, the more savagely the government allows British Coal to cut
capacity, the easier it will be to privatise the remainder. While its main
supply contracts remain in place until 1998, there is a profitable seam of
British Coal assets which could feasibly be sold. The snag is it may take no
more than a dozen pits to supply the electricity generators' needs, given
that 33m tonnes of surplus coal already sits in their stockyards. This,
though, would entail an even more drastic pit closure programme than the one
the government originally balked at. Moreover, after 1998 the risks will
multiply enormously. It will be difficult to negotiate a contract with the
generators on repeat terms; near-impossible to compete freely with overseas
open-cast coal.
British Coal has made a reasonable fist of managing the orderly decline of
the coal industry. The government will not find it easy to persuade anyone
in the private sector to pay to take it on.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

930722

