FT934-11549

FT  30 OCT 93 / Finance and the Family: The Week Ahead


This week sees several of the UK's largest retailers reporting interim
results. The UK's two most profitable retailers, Marks and Spencer and J
Sainsbury, report on Wednesday, and both are expected to show a healthy
increase in pre-tax profits. M and S is forecast to lift pre-tax profits
from Pounds 257.1m last year to between Pounds 285m and Pounds 295m this
year. Sainsbury is expected to see interim pre-tax profits up from Pounds
391.1m to Pounds 435m. But analysts are more interested in what the company
might say about the changing UK food market.
On Thursday it is the turn of Boots, which is likely to report increased
interim pre-tax profits from Pounds 185m last time to about Pounds 210m,
after exceptional items relating to the sale of the French subsidiary
Sephora and the withdrawal of the Manoplax heart drug by Boots
Pharmaceuticals.
BAT Industries, the tobacco and financial services group, is expected on
Wednesday to report an increase of about 25 per cent in pre-tax profits for
the first nine months of the year. Forecasts range from Pounds 1.31bn to
Pounds 1.38bn. Tobacco earnings will again feel the effects of the US
cigarette price war but the group should benefit from more favourable
exchange rates. Analysts expect further progress from Eagle Star, the
general insurance subsidiary, despite continuing losses on mortgage
insurance. Growth may be slower at Farmers Group, the US subsidiary.
British Petroleum, reporting third quarter results on Thursday, has enjoyed
a marked upgrading of its fortunes in recent weeks. Although oil prices have
fallen petroleum revenue tax has been cut to 50 per cent from 75 per cent
and downstream operations have turned in stronger performances. Profits of
at least Pounds 175m (Pounds 117m) are expected net of stock gains of Pounds
100m.

The Financial Times


London Page IV

931030

