FT933-12471

FT  23 JUL 93 / International Company News: Delta Air holds upward trend
with Dollars 7.1m


   By MARTIN DICKSON


   NEW YORK


DELTA Air Lines, one of the big three American carriers, yesterday
underscored the improving trend of US airline profitability by reporting net
income of Dollars 7.1m in its fourth quarter, compared with a Dollars 180m
net loss in the same period of last year.
The figures, which translated into a loss per share of 41 cents, down from
Dollars 3.72, came a day after American Airlines, the largest US carrier,
and USAir also reported a return to profit after a prolonged recession in
the industry and a fare war. The figures were better than most analysts had
been expecting.
Mr Ronald Allen, chairman of Delta, said the group's financial performance
in 1993 was 'unacceptable', even though it represented an improvement on the
previous year.
Delta also announced that, as part of an efficiency drive, it was
eliminating 13 management positions - seven vice-presidents and six
assistant vice-presidents. Some incumbents intended to retire, others would
be re-assigned. Since May last year the group has cut its staff by 7.7 per
cent, or 6,200 jobs.
For the full year, Delta lost Dollars 369.7m, or Dollars 9.41 a share, For
the full year, Delta lost Dollars 369.7m, or Dollars 9.41 a share, against a
loss of Dollars 506.3m, or Dollars 10.60, in 1992. Including the effect of
accounting changes, it lost Dollars 1bn, or Dollars 22.32 a share, in 1993.
In the latest quarter, operating revenues totalled Dollars 3.13bn, up 11 per
cent on the same period of 1992. Passenger revenue grew 10 per cent to
Dollars 2.9bn, thanks to 5 per cent growth in traffic to 20.9bn revenue
passenger miles and a 5 per cent improvement in the passenger mile yield
(the average price paid by each passenger to fly one mile) to 13.86 cents.
Operating expenses totalled Dollars 3.07bn, down 0.6 per cent. Salaries rose
less than 1 per cent.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

930723

