FT932-26

FT  30 JUN 93 / London Stock Exchange: TV sector put on the alert


   By STEVE THOMPSON, CHRISTOPHER PRICE and CHRISTINE BUCKLEY


THE PREMIUM price paid by Granada Group for its near-15 per cent voting
stake in rival LWT sparked a surge in television company shares as the
market braced itself for a wave of further strategic moves within the
sector. Granada's surprise move, described as 'audacious' by one media
specialist, leaves the leisure and television group well placed to take
advantage of the expected relaxing of regulations currently limiting mergers
and acquisitions in the sector.
The main loser from yesterday's events was seen to be Carlton Communications
which was thought to have high hopes of itself buying a strategic stake in
its London rival. Analysts said that it was highly likely that Carlton would
be in the market over the next few days in an attempt to gain a toe-hold in
LWT. With Granada likely to stay on the acquisitive track, Central is also
seen as another company that could be prompted into moving soon, with Anglia
the likely target. In addition, Granada now has a way into Yorkshire-Tyne
Tees, where it recently lost out to LWT for a WH Smith's 15 per cent stake.
Dealers said that BZW bought the 13.7m LWT convertible preference shares at
500p from three big institutional shareholders for Pounds 67.9m. They closed
at 466p, a big jump of 91p. Carlton, which also lost its managing-director
to Storehouse yesterday, tumbled 13 to 770p. Central gained 107 to 2,065p,
Anglia 36 to 353p and Yorkshire 14 to 199p. Granada's share price closed 3
down at 417p.

The Financial Times


London Page 50

930630

