FT932-124

FT  30 JUN 93 / The Lex Column: Competing calls


A 10p discount on a share flotation is not normally the kind of sum which
starts the stags rutting. But at least private investors who apply in the
BT3 offer will get the 9.5p final dividend if they hang on until mid-August.
Taken together the two incentives give private investors an effective 13 per
cent discount on the 150p first instalment. A first year yield of over 20
per cent will probably also tempt building society depositors to ignore the
capital risks. The retail offer will thus probably be a modest success.
Assuming that those private investors tend to hang on to their shares,
institutions will find themselves even more underweight in BT. Along with
the company's remarkable cash generation that ought to ensure good
institutional demand both before and after the issue. Indeed, BT seems so
well underpinned in the short term that the Treasury's paranoia over a run
on the shares is hard to understand.
The real threats to BT's cash machine come from continuing regulatory risk
and increasing competition. An agreement on pricing is due to run until
1997. And while investigations into special offers and Yellow Pages would be
a nuisance, they seem unlikely to wreak wholesale destruction.
Competitive erosion of BT's market share is the larger worry. At present it
looks glacial, but it may speed up as Mercury expands and other competitors
enter the market. The chancellor's apparent support in principle for AT&T's
licence application yesterday is thus interesting. If the government is
singing the praises of competitive pressures while trying to unload Pounds
5bn-worth of BT shares, what will it do afterwards?

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930630

