FT932-7202

FT  25 MAY 93 / UK Company News: CSI chief received Pounds 366,100 pay-off


   By PAUL TAYLOR


MR ROBIN BINKS, chief executive of Cannon Street Investments for only 15
months was paid a total of Pounds 548,000 last year, according to the latest
accounts.
Mr Binks had joined the board from SG Warburg in November, 1990, and was
made chief executive in December 1991. He was replaced last March by Mr
David Smith, the management consultant who masterminded the Isosceles bid
for Gateway, the supermarket chain.
Although Mr Binks' departure was said to have been by mutual consent, the
annual accounts published yesterday show that Mr Binks received Pounds
366,100, including Pounds 345,100 in cash, as a 'termination settlement' in
addition to his pay, for a total of Pounds 548,000.
During his tenure, Mr Binks reversed the strategy of his acquisition-minded
predecessor, Mr Bill Hislop, and made a series of disposals to reduce
borrowings.
Last year the group realised more than Pounds 60m from asset sales,
including Pounds 42m from the flotation of Avonside, the house-building
group. In the process 14 operating units, spanning more than 50 companies,
were cut to three.
However Mr Tom Long, chairman since May last year, decided that a change in
chief executive was appropriate because the group had moved into the next
phase of recovery and needed a chief executive with 'operational skills'.
Earlier this month Cannon Street reported a jump in pre-tax losses from
Pounds 34.3m to Pounds 115.5m for the year to January 2, reflecting trading
losses coupled with substantial goodwill write-offs and losses on sales and
closures.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

930525

