FT932-7145

FT  25 MAY 93 / Commodities and Agriculture: Low price forces lead output
cut


   By DAVID BLACKWELL


THE DRIFT in lead prices to the lowest levels for nearly seven years sparked
a cut in production by a leading European smelter yesterday.
Metaleurop said it would stop production at smelters in France and Germany
between June 15 and August 15, cutting refined output by 50,000 tonnes.
The company said it wanted to reduce oversupply in markets depressed by
economic weakness in western Europe and exceptionally high shipments from
eastern Europe. It intends to take the latter complaint to the EC Commission
in Brussels.
Yesterday the three-month lead price on the London Metal Exchange moved
ahead by more than Pounds 9 to Pounds 274.625 a tonne after a fresh 6 3/4
 year low last Friday after LME warehouse stocks rose to a record 254,125
tonnes.
Mr Nick Moore, analyst with Ord Minnett, said the Metaleurop decision
crystallised 'the debilitating impact of eastern bloc shipments to the
West'.
Imports from these countries were a record 173,000 tonnes in 1992. Chinese
exports were up to 73,000 tonnes from 9,000 tonnes in 1991; Polish exports
were at 14,000 tonnes from 8,000 tonnes; and CIS exports were 70,000 tonnes
from 45,000.
Mr Moore pointed out that in 1980 the West exported 123,000 tonnes to the
East. Consumption in the West last year, fell 0.9 per cent to 4.43m tonnes.
In dollar terms three-month lead fell from Dollars 450 a tonne at the
beginning of April to Dollars 404 last week. Yesterday it closed at Dollars
423 a tonne, equivalent to 19.20 cents a lb. The average cost of producing
refined lead in the West is thought to be between 23 and 24 cents a lb.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

930525

