FT934-11796

FT  29 OCT 93 / The Lex Column: Wellcome catches cold


Hell hath no fury like a market caught off-balance. The 11 per cent fall in
Wellcome's shares yesterday follows a bull run lasting four months. A poor
performance from Retrovir, Wellcome's anti-Aids treatment, was expected
following negative clinical trials. The sharp deceleration of Zovirax, the
anti-viral drug which has been the engine of Wellcome's recent growth, is
more of a shock. While it is dangerous to project a trend from six months'
figures, as the stock market seems minded to do, there are reasons enough to
reappraise the prospects.
SmithKline Beecham's new anti-viral drug looks likely to provide Zovirax
with stiff competition starting next year. The newcomer does not appear to
have clear-cut therapeutic benefits, but SB will doubtless bring its
marketing muscle to bear. Wellcome's declared defence strategy will include
heavy discounting should this be required to keep sales growing. Margins
have risen by 10 percentage points over three years, so it might now
surrender some of the gain. Such threats might be aimed at dissuading SB
from pitching its product too cheaply. But there must be a danger of a
pricing battle from which neither company gains.
That might explain why Wellcome's generosity with its dividend fell on stony
ground, unlike Glaxo's similar effort last month. With almost Pounds 600m in
the bank and dividend cover of 2.7 times - against an industry average of
2.2 - Wellcome has room to repeat the trick. Until the profits outlook is
less clouded, though, the promise of dividends growing faster than earnings
does not hold much allure.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

931029

