FT934-8818

FT  13 NOV 93 / Names step up pressure for out-of-court payment


   By RICHARD LAPPER


ERRORS AND omissions insurers must pay at least Pounds 900m if an
out-of-court settlement to legal disputes at the Lloyd's insurance market is
to be acceptable to loss-making Names, leaders of the loss makers said
yesterday.
The insurers, many of which are Lloyd's syndicates, cover agents against
legal awards for negligence. Lloyd's has identified contributions from them
as a source of funding for any deal with the loss-makers. Lloyd's is also
trying to persuade agents, brokers and accountants to make donations and is
prepared to contribute from its central fund towards a settlement. It hopes
to offer details of a deal to Names by early December.
The Lloyd's Names Associations' Working Party, which links 37 groups of
loss-making Names that are claiming up to Pounds 3.5bn in compensation, said
yesterday it believed the exposure of the insurers to the Names' claims
could be 'as high as Pounds 1.5bn'. The working party described as
'derisory' a possible offer of Pounds 300m said to be under consideration by
errors and omissions underwriters.
'We are doubtful a total offer will make sense if the E&O contribution is
anything under Pounds 900m,' said Mr Christopher Stockwell, chairman of the
working party.
Separately, Lloyd's said it would 'vigorously defend' a writ served earlier
this week by a Name alleging criminal and civil fraud, false accounting and
negligence. The writ seeks to cancel any contract with Lloyd's from November
1981.

The Financial Times


London Page 7

931113

