FT931-4236

FT  11 MAR 93 / Senate's approval near for Brazil tax


   By CHRISTINA LAMB


   BRASLIA


THE Brazilian Senate was set yesterday to approve a new tax on financial
transactions, after reassurances from the finance minister that the
government is planning no shock measures.
Government officials were predicting a smooth passage for the tax, having
overcome a credibility crisis provoked by the nomination last week of Mr
Eliseu Resende as Brazil's third finance minister in five months.
He had held public office during the military regime of 1964-85, when he was
behind some huge and costly development projects now considered white
elephants, such as the Transamazonica - a road through the Amazonian rain
forest.
The optimism yesterday arose from a positive reaction to promises by Mr
Resende in his six-hour address to the Senate late on Tuesday. He said that,
in the fight against inflation, there would be no shock measures such as a
price freeze, devaluation or compulsory lengthening of terms on Treasury
bonds.
The minister reiterated the need for the new tax. It was a 'hole-filler of
the utmost importance,' he said. The 0.25 per cent levy on cheques and
financial transactions is expected to raise the equivalent of an extra
Dollars 600m per month, essential for government attempts to balance its
budget.
Mr Resende reaffirmed that the government intends to use Dollars 4bn of the
extra revenue to pay off half of the domestic debt titles which fall due
this year. However, the tax cannot take effect until a supplementary law has
been enacted.
Yesterday, the financial markets had their calmest day for weeks, relieved
by the minister's assurances and by the choice as Central Bank governor of
Mr Paulo Cesar Ximenes, Brazil's representative at the Inter-American
Development Bank in Washington.

The Financial Times


International Page 5

930311

