FT941-16855

FT  07 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Lloyd's


With underwriting capacity of around Pounds 10.5bn this year, Lloyd's of
London appears - against all odds - to have attracted an adequate supply of
capital. Despite heavy losses, individual Names have not deserted the
insurance market in anything like the numbers feared. Corporate investors
have contributed Pounds 1.6bn in capacity, equivalent to an influx of around
3,000 new Names. Far from facing starvation, Lloyd's management must now
consider ways of restricting the inflow of funds. If insurance rates start
to soften, such measures might be necessary as early as 1996.
Yet rationing the aggregate capacity of Lloyd's would only be a partial
solution. New investors would still be attracted to the most profitable
lines of business, encouraging syndicates to expand in these areas, often at
the wrong point in the insurance cycle. Raising a levy from all new
investors, to be varied according to the line of business underwritten,
might be the simplest way to proceed. Lloyd's management would then exercise
an unprecedented degree of control over the affairs of individual
syndicates. In the absence of a mechanism by which capital can be allocated
to syndicates on the basis of price, though, central direction is probably
better than none.
Still, the greater goal of a secondary market in syndicate participations -
and an accompanying price mechanism - should not be abandoned, despite the
legal obstacles. If standards of disclosure can be raised across the market,
the allocation of capital within Lloyd's would then be more efficient and
transparent.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940107

