FT942-12553

FT  29 APR 94 / African Development Bank 'needs overhaul'


   By REUTER


   ABIDJAN


The African Development Bank needs a radical overhaul of its lending
policies, projects and internal structure, a panel of outside consultants
recommends, Reuter reports from Abidjan.
They give warning of the consequences if the 30-year-old bank fails to
reform. 'If not strengthened, it may end up by destroying itself. That is
the stark choice before the entire bank community,' says their confidential
report, submitted earlier this month to Mr Babacar Ndiaye, the bank's
Senegalese president.
The 'task force on project quality,' chaired by Mr David Knox, a former
World Bank vice-president, began its study on Africa's premier lending
institution last August. The report blames both African governments and the
25 non-regional countries led by rich western powers who own 36 per cent of
the bank.
The report says the bank is 'pulled in all directions by conflicting goals
and attitudes of its shareholders' who are divided about its role and
policies. It criticises the way many of the bank's hundreds of projects are
identified, prepared and appraised. Highlighting an atmosphere of distrust
and uncertainty that pervades and weakens the bank, it calls for a rethink
of the relationship between the president and the boards of governors and
directors.
The Addis Ababa-based Economic Commission for Africa said yesterday it would
appeal to rich nations for Dollars 869bn (Pounds 577bn) to bring about
sustained economic recovery in the next decade.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

940429

