FT943-12850

FT  22 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Bundesbank


The Bundesbank still managed a small surprise yesterday even if its failure
to cut the discount rate or amend its money supply target were widely
expected. The slightly unsettling aspect of its council meeting was the
decision to fix the money market repurchase rate at 4.85 per cent until
after the summer holiday recess. That is only three basis points below the
present level and is a clear indication of the central bank's caution on
rate cuts.
Admittedly the bank could not afford to continue cutting the repurchase rate
by three or four basis points a week without using up nearly all its leeway
during the holiday period. Speculation about a discount rate cut as soon as
the recess was over would then grow unbearable. From that perspective,
fixing the repurchase rate makes technical sense. But there is no escaping
the conclusion that the Bundesbank wants to avoid being bounced into a
discount rate cut as soon as the recess is over. It would prefer to wait for
more evidence of falling inflation and money supply growth. That is natural,
as the bank has to watch for the impact on the bond market of any decisions
it makes on interest rates. But the message of indifference to the dollar's
fate could hardly be more explicit. That the dollar actually rose yesterday
was thus baffling. In contrast to Wednesday, it was helped by supportive
comments on the other side of the Atlantic from Mr Alan Greenspan of the
Federal Reserve and Mr Larry Summers of the US Treasury. But while the
central banks dither on interest rates, the currency still looks vulnerable.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940722

