FT943-12788

FT  22 JUL 94 / International Company News: Fall in gold mine profits hits
Anglo American


   By MARK SUZMAN


   JOHANNESBURG


South Africa's Anglo American group, the world's biggest gold producer, has
reported attributable profit from its gold mines down sharply in the June
quarter, declining 31 per cent to R182.1m (Dollars 49.40m) from R263.5m the
previous quarter.
The poor results, which follow the trend set by other leading South African
gold producers, were largely the result of lower production levels as a
result of labour unrest and unscheduled public holidays because of the April
elections.
Although an improved spot price led to a higher average gold price received,
at R43,462 per kilogram compared to R41.621 per kilogram in the March
quarter, it was more than offset by an 8 per cent rise in average unit costs
to R33,923 per kilogram from R31,482 per kilogram. Total production dropped
to 57,683kg from 61,295kg.
Profits were further hit by the one-off transitional levy imposed by the
government on all South African companies to help finance the costs of the
election. This led to R21.4m in additional tax being paid for the quarter.
Without the levy, attributable profit would have only decreased 23 per cent.
Freegold, the group's biggest mine, had the worst results. Its attributable
profit fell 58.4 per cent to R47.7m compared with R114.6m in the March
quarter and gold produced fell to 23,982kg from 25,272kg. Freegold was also
hit by a lower average yield at 4.16 grammes per tonne from 4.33 grammes per
tonne.
Similarly, at Western Deep, attributable profit dropped 38.8 per cent to
R29m from R47.4m and at Vaal Reefs total production fell to 16,889kg from
17,928kg. However, Elandsrand's total production only dipped slightly to
4,193kg from 4,280kg, while Ergo, which reclaims gold from worked out mine
dumps, managed to raise attributable profit from R15.59m to R15.58m.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940722

