FT944-14475

FT  22 OCT 94 / The Lex Column: Japanese brokers


Yesterday's half-year results from the top 20 Japanese broking houses were
as grim as predicted. Only two reported year-on-year increases in earnings,
while 16 posted losses. The primary cause was poor trading volumes on the
Tokyo stock exchange. At the bubble's height, turnover regularly exceeded
Y1,000bn a day. But during the first half of 1994, average volumes scarcely
reached Y360bn. The collapse hit second-tier brokers particularly hard
because equity commissions generate an especially large proportion of their
revenues.
The outlook is bleak. With domestic and foreign investors put off by
uncertain prospects for the economy and corporate sector, the market's
chances of reaching the brokers' predicted daily volumes of Y550bn during
the second half remain remote.
Brokers have responded by cutting costs with an alacrity unusual among
Japanese companies. Numbers employed by the industry have fallen nearly 20
per cent since June 1991. Even so, more radical solutions are required to
reduce capacity and increase demand. The traditionally cautious ministry of
finance may be tempted to create an orderly and gradual rationalisation
through mergers. That is the minimum requirement. Abolition of Tokyo's
system of fixed commissions, which keeps transaction costs artificially
high, could achieve more. In the short term, margins would be reduced. But
in the longer term deregulation would encourage greater efficiency and boost
trading.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

941022

