FT944-2539

FT  16 DEC 94 / Leading Article: Gas cloud


At the very least, British Gas's plans to cut the wages and holidays of some
of its least-well paid staff is a public relations disaster. The move, just
weeks after the group awarded its chief executive, Mr Cedric Brown, a pay
rise of 75 per cent, also suggests a degree of misjudgement and naivety
within the company's top management that does little to justify exceptional
salaries.
The timing could hardly be more controversial. Gas prices will rise above
inflation next year, and public resentment is running high, as shown by the
government's failure to raise value added tax on heating fuel.
British Gas explains the cuts in wages of its showroom staff - and the
closure this year of 157 of its 423 showrooms - by the need to drag its
retail arm into profit. As part of its modernisation, the cuts may make
sense. The domestic market has matured, and gas is no longer battling
fiercely to win market share. Wages and staffing levels in the showrooms
need to be aligned to the high street, not to British Gas's internal scales.
But the group has been extraordinarily insensitive to public and political
opinion. Even after a decade, the case for privatisation of utilities is
hardly won in the public mind. The popular image of the legacy of
privatisation is not of improved services but of rising water bills - and
now of Mr Brown's Pounds 475,000 pay packet. Yet British Gas cannot afford
to waste goodwill; it wants the Gas Bill now before parliament to spread the
costs of providing universal access across all suppliers.
The group's latest advertising trumpets the flexibility of gas, with the
slogan 'don't you just love being in control?' But its executives may now
find, having turned up the political heat, that they cannot turn it down.

The Financial Times


London Page 19

941216

