FT942-12200

FT  30 APR 94 / S African parties hit at 'flaws' in election


   By MICHAEL HOLMAN and MARK SUZMAN


South Africa will wait anxiously most of this weekend for the results of the
general election, widely acknowledged to have been flawed, after thousands
of last-minute voters in the country's former tribal homelands cast their
votes to end the historic four-day exercise.
All the main parties have seized on mismanagement and irregularities in
procedures to prepare the ground for challenging the results, although their
officials acknowledge that rejecting the outcome could destabilise the
country.
Election officials yesterday said first results could be available by this
afternoon at the earliest, but a clear picture of the outcome is unlikely
before tomorrow.
Two areas in particular, both highly susceptible to party political
pressure, could be critical in determining both the result and the extent to
which it will be regarded as free and fair.
Millions of voters in the rural areas of northern Natal, a stronghold of
Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom party, and in the Transkei and
Ciskei, fiefdoms of Mr Nelson Mandela's African National Congress, were due
to vote yesterday. But election observers privately expressed concern that
many more voting papers had been issued than there were voters. They were
also worried about the lack of security arrangements at polling stations.
ANC leaders yesterday repeated allegations that Inkatha had been involved in
fraud and said it had presented a list of complaints to the Independent
Electoral Commission. But Mr Justice Johann Kriegler, the head of the
commission, shrugged off accusations of incompetence and maladministration.
Doubt cast on result, Page 3

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940430

