FT943-12981

FT  22 JUL 94 / US plans for spy chip abandoned


   By KEN WARN


   WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration has abandoned its effort to force the computer
industry to introduce a semiconductor known as a clipper chip, which would
have let intelligence services eavesdrop on the information superhighway.
The chip, developed by the National Security Agency, would have made it
possible for users of personal computers to scramble or encrypt their
communications, but would also have allowed law enforcement or security
agencies to tap in.
The administration's change of mind emerged in a letter, released this week,
from Vice President Al Gore to Representative Maria Cantwell, whose
Washington state district is home to Microsoft computer software company,
which vehemently opposed the clipper chip.
The chip remained the desired standard for telephone communications, Mr
Gore's letter said, but not for computer exchanges. The administration would
continue to work with the industry on a voluntary encryption standard, he
said.
The policy shift 'is a significant victory both for US software companies
and the future of the global information superhighway', said Mr Robert
Holleyman, Business Software Alliance president.
The industry has opposed both the clipper chip and curbs on exports of
encryption programs, which the intelligence community claims hamper its
security work overseas. Civil liberties groups said the chip violated
privacy.
The security of the information superhighway is a growing issue in the US.
Hackers have gained access to sensitive but unclassified government and
military communications networks connected to the Internet, the New York
Times reported yesterday.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940722

