FT941-5557

FT  05 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Abbey National


Amid the market upheavals it is difficult to tell whether Abbey National's
22 per cent dividend increase will be sufficient to reverse its 30 per cent
under-performance against the banking sector over the last two years. That
happened partly because other banks, with a worse bad debt record, were
perceived as having greater recovery prospects. But Abbey also needs to grow
as well as pay large dividends. Sensibly, it has now turned its back on
rasher forms of diversification, such as estate agency and French commercial
property lending. It could go back to basics and buy a building society.
The stock objection is that the mutual structure of societies makes them
difficult to acquire. Yet, provided members are given sufficient incentive,
they can probably be persuaded to de-mutualise. A predator could offer
members of most societies several hundred pounds apiece and still acquire
the business at book. The amount needed to swing the vote pales into
insignificance with the goodwill that could accrue if the same predator were
trying to buy another bank.
Banks like Lloyds and TSB are also occasionally mentioned in connection with
building societies, but it makes particular sense for Abbey. The trend
towards more liberal rules on wholesale funding by societies means others
may soon enjoy the same Eurobond funding opportunities which it acquired
with conversion to plc status. If Abbey waits for societies to de-mutualise
voluntarily before buying, it might miss the boat altogether. Depending how
it is carried out, de-mutualisation can confer protection against takeover
for the five ensuing years, a privilege which Abbey itself is still, just,
enjoying.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940305

