FT942-14593

FT  20 APR 94 / Strasbourg set for cash crisis: European News Digest


   By KEVIN BROWN


   STRASBOURG


The European Parliament is heading for a financial crisis as a result of its
decision to bow to French pressure for a new parliament building in
Strasbourg, according to an unpublished report by the parliament's
secretariat. Draft budget estimates for next year, produced by Mr Enrico
Vinci, the parliament's secretary-general, show that the strain of financing
the building will help push the parliament's running costs from Ecu692m
(Pounds 544m) next year to Ecu819m in 1997. The extra costs will increase
the parliament's share of the Union's Ecu4bn administrative budget from
17.96 per cent to 20.02 per cent, breaching a 20 per cent limit agreed with
the Commission and the Council of Ministers.
The report forecasts that if nothing is done the budget will continue to
rise, reaching Ecu874m, or 20.83 per cent of the administrative budget, by
1999. The financial crisis was triggered by a controversial decision last
month by the parliament's administrative committee to go ahead with a Pounds
300m building to replace its existing chamber and offices in Strasbourg,
which are used for one week each month.
The decision, which followed French threats to disrupt the June elections to
parliament, follows an earlier controversial decision to replace the
parliament's main debating chamber in Brussels. It has been heavily
criticised by MEPs from both of the main political groupings, which would
prefer to centralise parliament's activities in Brussels.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

940420

