FT944-14473

FT  22 OCT 94 / The Lex Column: UK pay


Yesterday's rejection of a 7.5 per cent, two-year pay offer by Jaguar
workers appears to provide swift support for the Confederation of British
Industry's warning about rising labour costs. Even if the Jaguar workers'
specific worry about overtime makes it a special case, there are clear signs
that wage growth is picking up. The Jaguar offer follows the recent 10 per
cent, two-year deal at Rover. While settlements in manufacturing have
attracted most attention, several large retailers have also agreed hefty
increases.
Even so, judging by the official statistics there is little cause for alarm.
Though there is quite strong real wage growth, pay increases in
manufacturing are still being outstripped by productivity growth with the
result that unit labour costs are declining. But there are concerns that the
headline pay agreement numbers tend to understate the increase in total
labour costs. Moreover, the likelihood that the increase in employment is
being under-recorded would mean that productivity growth is not as strong as
it looks.
In any case, improvements in productivity should start to slow as the cycle
progresses. Meanwhile, companies like Rover, which cut out all the slack in
the recession, are having to recruit again and an increasing number complain
about skills shortages. That is not to say that rising wages will feed
through swiftly into inflation. But they will put further pressure on
corporate margins, already squeezed by higher raw materials costs and
stagnant output prices.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

941022

