FT941-17061

FT  06 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Germany


Today's Bundesbank council meeting faces a difficult decision on interest
rates. Given the further rise in unemployment in December to a
post-reunification high, the economic outlook is hardly encouraging. The 2.1
per cent drop in November industrial production makes it more or less
certain that economic output fell in the fourth 1993 quarter while the 0.8
per cent drop in new orders does not bode well for the first quarter of this
year. Since the Bundesbank seems generally satisfied that inflation is on a
downward course, that would call for a further cut in official rates -
especially since economic recovery could yield productivity gains which
would help keep price rises under control.
Yet the Bundesbank cannot ignore the weakness of both the D-Mark and German
bonds. Germany needs foreign capital to finance a budget deficit that
remains uncomfortably high. At a time when there is talk of a monetary
tightening in the US, the bank may not want to risk a rate cut which could
precipitate further D-Mark weakness. Higher bond yields would then make the
deficit even more expensive to finance.
That calls for some delicate manoeuvring. The bank could leave the discount
rate unchanged and simply cut its money market repurchase rate. But, at 25
basis points, the gap between the two rates is already small. Such a move
would leave expectations of a discount rate cut later this month at fever
pitch, so the D-Mark would probably weaken anyway. A better solution might
be for the bank to get the discount rate cut out of the way now and use its
repurchase operations to signal that money market rates will be allowed to
catch up only slowly.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940106

