FT942-15367

FT  15 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Hostage to fortune


Even allowing for the Bundesbank's fondness of wrong-footing financial
markets, the timing of yesterday's discount rate cut is difficult to fathom.
With money supply and inflation figures due next week, the central bank
appears to have made itself a hostage to fortune. Perhaps the authorities
already have an inkling of the likely data. Either way, the collapse of the
Schneider property empire is a reminder of the pain still being suffered by
German companies and banks. While there does not appear to be any systemic
danger arising from the collapse, that may have been enough to swing the
council behind a quarter-point cut.
The worry for financial markets accustomed to half-point cuts is that a
smaller reduction might signal the beginning of the end. By setting a
variable rate repurchase tender next week, the Bundesbank appears to be
signalling that money market rates will drift lower for the time being. The
70 basis point gap between the money market repurchase and discount rates
leaves plenty of room for that. If the central bank expects inflation to
fall below 3 per cent in the second half of this year, real interest rates
will rise without further action. Lower short rates will also be required to
shepherd investors out along the yield curve, as the Bundesbank remains keen
to do.
Such arguments point to a gently falling repurchase rate for some time yet.
The reaction of the foreign exchange markets yesterday - the D-Mark actually
strengthened against the dollar - suggests that the currency presents no
obstacle.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940415

