FT943-12648

FT  23 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: UK banks


Three influences look set to dominate the clearing bank interim results
season which kicks off with Lloyds Bank next week. Loan demand has stayed
weak and the turmoil in the bond markets has depressed trading income. Those
two factors will make for a lacklustre performance at the operating level.
But thanks to the accelerating economic recovery, provisions will have
fallen rapidly, perhaps on average by around a third from their collective
level of Pounds 2.4bn in the first half of last year.
That will ensure a bounce in earnings and a substantial improvement in
capital ratios. Even National Westminster could see its tier one ratio
rising above 6 per cent. The generally accepted assumption is that the banks
will use the opportunity to pay generous dividend increases. After all,
surplus capital is a burden if there is little balance sheet growth. It
might be better to pay some of it back rather than squander resources on a
price war that currently promises little by way of volume growth.
The dividend decision is a delicate one, just the same. While fears of
margin erosion due to price cutting are probably overdone for the present,
there will certainly be a fierce battle for market share once loan demand
does eventually pick up. History shows this tends to happen at a later stage
of recovery. Then banks will find their profits squeezed as they sacrifice
return for volume. It will be awkward if they have meanwhile set dividends
so high that retained earnings are insufficient to finance balance sheet
growth.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940723

