FT942-12821

FT  28 APR 94 / Economic Watch: Germany sees DM13.7bn outflow


Germany suffered a net outflow of long-term capital in February of DM13.7bn,
(Pounds 5.43bn) compared with an inflow of DM16.7bn the previous month,
underlining the recent turbulence in the bond market. Foreign investors sold
a net DM9.6bn worth of fixed interest bonds (after net purchases of DM26.6bn
in January), whereas domestic investors increased their purchases of foreign
bonds from DM4.6bn to DM10.6bn. As a result, the surplus on capital account
in the balance of payments shrank from DM28.5bn to just DM600m in February,
according to the Bundesbank. The figures reflect in part the flight of US
mutual funds from the German bond market because of rising interest rates,
and partly a correction after the massive inflow of money from Luxembourg in
December and January, when certain tax allowances were cancelled. The
current account of the German balance of payments showed an increasing
deficit, from DM2.6bn in January to DM4.8bn in February, after unusually
high deficits in service payments and net transfers. Quentin Peel, Bonn
Eastern Germany's manufacturing industry orders were 4.2 per cent higher in
February compared to January and up 23.9 per cent from a year earlier,
thanks largely to a surge in domestic demand, according to the German
economics ministry.
Swiss consumer prices rose 0.1 per cent in April after standing unchanged in
March to give annual inflation of 1.0 per cent, the Federal Statistics
Office said.
Bank of Greece governor Ioannis Boutos said in his annual review of the
economy that he expected year-on-year inflation to be steady at around 10
per cent in April.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

940428

