FT941-4204

FT  12 MAR 94 / Slovak deputies topple premier


   By ANTHONY ROBINSON, East Europe Editor


Slovakia enters a period of deepening political tension this weekend after
prime minister Vladimir Meciar and his government were toppled by a
no-confidence vote in the Slovak parliament yesterday. Deputies approved the
motion by 78-2 with 70 abstentions, many of them former Meciar supporters.
Mr Meciar led his Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS) to victory in
the June 1992 Czechoslovak general elections. But he was then quickly
out-manoeuvred by the Czech leader, Mr Vaclav Klaus. The Czech refusal to
finance his demands for autonomy just short of independence forced the
Slovak leader to take this country of 5m people into an independence which
opinion polls showed only a small minority of Slovak nationalists wanted.
Since then Mr Meciar's highly personalised and aggressive political style
has lost support for him and his party against the background of a widening
gulf between living standards in the Czech republic, which has forged ahead
with market reforms, and Slovakia. The new republic came into existence in
January 1993 with a weaker economy heavily weighted towards former Comecon
markets and based largely on inefficient heavy industry. Since independence
market reforms have virtually stopped and the economy has declined further
against a background of high inflation, rising unemployment and a
depreciating currency.
Until now Mr Meciar has been able to hold on to power by force of his
personality and indecisiveness and divisions among opposition groups, of
which the most important are the former communists turned social democrats
led by Mr Peter Weiss, the Slovak Nationalist party and the Christian
Democrats.
Under the Slovak constitution President Michal Kovac is obliged to dissolve
the government and designate a leading politician to try and form a new
government. Once a new cabinet is formed it has to be approved by parliament
within 30 days.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940312

