FT941-16943

FT  07 JAN 94 / World Trade News: US moves to aid home industry


   By NANCY DUNNE


   WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration yesterday was expected to announce a package of
legislative proposals to help the US airline and aircraft industries,
including one measure to permit increased foreign ownership of US airlines.
The proposals, set to be announced by Mr Federico Pena, the US
transportation secretary, will be based on recommendations prepared by a
presidential commission last summer. They are sure to provoke much
controversy in Congress, particularly one which would strip the Federal
Aviation Administration of its authority over air traffic control and
establish a quasi-governmental corporation to take over that responsibility.
After taking office, President Clinton moved swiftly to attack the problems
of the US airline and aircraft industries which have lost more than Dollars
10bn (Pounds 6.7bn) since 1990. The commission was given 90 days to make
recommendations. It found, among other things, that the US air
transportation system 'is being hobbled by self-imposed and
government-mandated attitudes and policies that are dysfunctional.'
It said the system must be made 'efficient and technologically superior' and
the FAA must be 'reinvented.'
The administration was expected to forgo one commission recommendation - a
rollback of ticket taxes from 8 to 5 per cent - on the grounds that the
airline industry is recovering. However, officials are ready to accept a
proposed change in law allowing the US to negotiate bilateral agreements
that permit foreign investors to hold up to 49 per cent equity in US
airlines.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

940107

