FT942-14355

FT  20 APR 94 / Business Air Travel (31): Airports of the world - Better
gateway to New York / Newark


   By PATRICK HARVERSON


Newark airport, located 16 miles southwest of midtown Manhattan, may be in a
different state from New York, but it offers a more pleasant arrival and
departure point than JFK, and so is increasingly popular among visitors to
the city.
The main terminals at Newark are more modern, less crowded and better run
than those at the older, much bigger, JFK. There are not as many shops at
Newark, but the bars and restaurants at the airport are in better shape and
stay open longer. Service from airport staff is also generally more
courteous.
The big advantage that Newark has over JFK is the travel time between the
airport and the city. Because the roads between Newark and Manhattan are
generally less crowded than those into the city from Queens, outside the
morning rush hour it can take little more than 20 minutes to get to downtown
Manhattan (this is particularly handy for anyone eager to get to a business
meeting in the financial district). Add an extra 20 minutes, however, for
uptown destinations.
You can either take the bus or a taxi. There are two main bus services:
Grayline is quicker, costs Dollars 18 and can drop you off anywhere around
midtown, while Olympia Buses is a bargain at only Dollars 7 but it goes only
to one destination, Penn Station. Licensed yellow taxi cabs cost much they
same as they do from JFK, at anywhere between Dollars 35 and Dollars 45,
including tips and toll.

The Financial Times


London Page XV

940420

