FT941-16856

FT  07 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: French property


As UK investors find it increasingly hard to sink money into their
rebounding domestic property market, they must be tempted to buy concrete
assets across the Channel. After all, the Paris office market followed
London into a nasty slump in capital and rental values. It would now be
natural to expect a similar bounce as French rents near their bottom,
interest rates subside, and the economy starts to firm.
However, the property recovery in France may prove a lot slower than in the
UK. That is partly because the Paris market never fell as far. French
financial institutions have helped shore up property values throughout the
recession - as demonstrated this week by the rescue of the property bank, Le
Comptoir des Entrepreneurs. Yields on prime commercial property have
therefore never climbed to heady heights. The 6 per cent yield currently
available on prime Paris properties offers less scope for capital gain than
once available in the UK.
Rental growth is also likely to be muted. Empty space in the Paris office
market amounts to more than 10 per cent of the total stock. High
unemployment rates make it unlikely that the surplus space will be quickly
absorbed. The shorter length of French leases also makes it easier for
occupiers to shop around for cheaper rents while lessening the security of
income for owners. Now is the time to buy French property. But real bargains
will be hard to find.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940107

