FT942-16244

FT  12 APR 94 / US plea on German reactor


   By GEORGE GRAHAM


   WASHINGTON


The US has asked Germany to reconsider plans to build a nuclear research
reactor using bomb-grade highly enriched uranium, a step which it says would
set back 10 years of efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation. The State
Department has voiced its concern to the German government about the FRM-II
neutron source reactor, to be built near Munich in Bavaria, for which
licensing hearings are expected to begin next month. The US has also warned
Germany that it will not supply HEU fuel for the reactor.
For the past 20 years the US has tried to persuade other countries to
convert their research reactors, some of which, unlike normal power
generation reactors, can only be run effectively on HEU, to switch to lower
enrichment uranium. A similar advanced neutron source reactor planned in the
US is now expected to use LEU after feasibility studies were carried out by
the US government, but German officials said LEU would add considerably to
the cost of the FRM-II plant.
Some German reactor operators have suggested Russia could be an alternative
supplier of HEU, but German officials said such a radical step was not yet
under consideration. But the willingness of European research reactors to
co-operate with US non-proliferation goals has been stretched by the US
Department of Energy's failure so far to fulfil its undertaking to take
their spent fuel for disposal. An emergency solution to the spent fuel issue
was expected to be completed by the end of March, but has been put off again
until Friday.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940412

