FT943-13311

FT  20 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Argyll


Argyll has been the soggy lettuce of the food retailing sector of late
having underperformed its peers by 20 per cent over the past 18 months. But
yesterday's upbeat trading statement suggests it may be recovering some
freshness. Argyll's shares rose 5 per cent on the back of reasonable
like-for-like sales figures. One has to take a particularly dim view of the
industry's future not to warm to a company which yields 6 per cent and
boasts dividend cover of two times.
Argyll also added more weight to the industry establishment's argument that
recent price skirmishes reflect a one-off step change in margin structure
rather than the start of an ever-deepening price spiral. The discounters
have certainly been badly squeezed by the big superstores' aggression -
although that is not altogether to Argyll's advantage. Its own Lo Cost
discount chain has been hammered worst of all.
Still, the longer term doubts about the industry persist as an increasing
amount of capital chases a decreasing pool of profits. One remedy is for the
industry to consolidate further, which is what the scramble for Wm Low is
all about. Argyll, which is heavily reliant on Scotland, may believe it is
better for Tesco or Sainsbury to take over existing capacity than add new
stores. But given the greater trading muscle of both chains, that
consolation may prove short-lived. If Sainsbury's is locked out of Scotland,
it may divert more capital abroad. Its Shaw's chain in the US provides a
handy launch pad.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940720

