FT941-4106

FT  12 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Trading blows


Yesterday's trade figures provided a wonderful excuse for more outpourings
of gloom on the UK economy. The markets' predictable conclusion was that
even this modest recovery is exacting a terrible price on the trade account.
As the deficit is deteriorating more quickly than many expected, the
authorities may be forced sooner into corrective action. At the very least,
the weaker tone of sterling may make them more reluctant to cut interest
rates. That has nasty implications for gilts which promptly fell 1.5 points
with equities following down behind.
There is a danger, though, that the markets will become too fixated on the
bad news. True, the trade deficit remained disturbingly high throughout the
recession. True, also, the 11 per cent increase in export unit prices over
the past year suggests UK industry is still prepared to sacrifice long-term
market share for short-term margins. But the worst part of the deterioration
was in exports to continental Europe in the closing couple of months of last
year when sterling was rising towards DM2.60.
The currency has now fallen back closer to DM2.50, while at some stage
European interest rates must fall to the point where recovery sets in,
allowing the UK scope to continue growing. By then, yesterday's market
reaction may be seen as a buying opportunity, especially in gilts which now
offer a full percentage point yield premium to German bunds. A couple of
months of good inflation figures would make present yields look attractive,
which might permit the government to fund aggressively again.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940312

