FT944-5906

FT  01 DEC 94 / The Lex Column: Hoechst


Hoechst is showing atypical dynamism. Yesterday's results were better than
expected. That was partly due to an early dividend from its PVC
joint-venture. But aggressive cost reduction also played an important role:
the number of parent company employees has fallen 12 per cent year on year.
Margins may still look low by comparison with other German chemicals groups,
but these have been depressed by restructuring charges.
Mr Jurgen Dormann, who became chairman this year, has also been sorting out
Hoechst's problem businesses. The dyestuffs, fibres and acrylics operations
have each been spun off or merged with other groups. Yesterday Mr Dormann
publicly announced he would strengthen the drugs business by making a US
acquisition. It certainly needs help: margins last year were just 10 per
cent compared with Bayer's 19 per cent. An acquisition will not be a
panacea. It may add market share but more will be needed to boost Hoechst's
unproductive research and development.
Although Hoechst's pre-tax profits rose 83 per cent during the first nine
months, its shares are where they started the year - primarily because of
worries about the US economy. Until a drugs deal is announced, they will
probably continue to tread water. Hoechst's cash-flow may be substantial.
But unlike BASF and Bayer, it has net debt, making investors more concerned
about acquisitions. Provided the group can allay such fears, the combination
of strong volume growth and the full benefit of price rises should drive
Hoechst's shares forward.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

941201

