FT943-13205

FT  21 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Futures trading


The battle lines in global futures trading are being drawn. In one camp are
the Chicago Board of Trade and London's Liffe. Yesterday they agreed to
explore linking their electronic out-of-hours trading systems. In the other
camp is Globex - an alliance embracing the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
Germany's DTB and France's Matif as well as Reuters, the financial
information group. The two groups have rather different visions. CBOT and
Liffe, reflecting their positions as the largest exchanges in their
respective time zones, understandably do not wish to lose control of their
futures contracts to rival exchanges. As a result, they favour loose
bilateral alliances. Both are also committed to the system of open outcry.
So electronic trading is envisaged mainly as a way of extending their
services outside normal opening hours.
Globex is a tighter alliance, requiring a greater degree of commitment from
its members. That is one of the reasons CBOT left it earlier in the year and
Liffe refused to join. Electronic trading also plays a more central role,
with Globex ultimately envisaged as a round-the-clock system.
In the medium term, both approaches can coexist. The only contract over
which there is serious competition is the bund future. Moreover, Globex's
slow start shows that global futures trading will not develop quickly. But a
fully screen-based trading system looks like the more cost-effective option
in the long run. If so, open outcry could find itself consigned to history
in the way face-to-face share trading was in the 1980s.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940721

