FT944-2987

FT  15 DEC 94 / Arts: Andras Schiff - Recital


   By DAVID MURRAY


On Sunday, Andras Schiff played Bach, Bartok and Beethoven at the Barbican -
in that order. The second half was reserved for the 'Hammerklavier' Sonata;
earlier, Bartok's piano sonata snapped at the heels of Bach's Fourth
Partita.
The Partita was exquisitely performed. I used to find Schiff's Bach
over-jewelled sometimes, but nowadays he strikes a lovely balance between
grace and rigorous clarity. His Overture here was resplendent, the Aria
deeply meditated, the final Gigue a dazzling tour de force: altogether a
delight to hear.
With Schiff the dance-movements in the Partitas sound more like contrapuntal
character-pieces, individuated by expression rather than by strongly
contrasted rhythms. At the risk of gilding the lily, I think he might
remember the dance a little more often. In the Bartok sonata there was no
sense of a stamping-dance in the first movement, nor much popular lilt in
the last. Schiff's keyboard style in Bach (digital, linear, parsimonious
with the pedal) was carried over to Bartok, and the result - in a piece
partly inspired by Stravinsky's Rite - felt brittle and bloodless, fleet
without thrust.
In the grand first movement of the 'Hammerklavier', it seemed that the
breadth of Schiff's musical intelligence again risked compromise by light
fingers and a hint of nervy tautness. By the Adagio, however, he had found
his best stride: still light and under-pedalled, but soberly penetrating and
perfectly sustained. The audience was held rapt. The concluding fugue, much
of it taken at heroically reckless speed, was cogent and triumphant.

The Financial Times


London Page 23

941215

