FT943-12670

FT  23 JUL 94 / International Company News: Recovery under way, says
chairman


   By CHRISTOPHER PARKES


Mercedes-Benz expects to boost passenger car deliveries by 15 per cent this
year, regain lost ground in the US, and post a 'considerably improved'
result, according to Mr Helmut Werner, company chairman, writes Christopher
Parkes.
The Daimler-Benz automotive division, which lost a net DM1.2bn (Dollars
766m) last year, delivered 302,300 cars in the first six months of this year
 -an increase of 37 per cent, he said. Production rose 44 per cent.
The company did not have the capacity to increase deliveries further, Mr
Werner said. In any case, Mercedes was now planning capacity according to
medium-term demand. It was not interested in costly attempts to match
short-term trends.
Indicating progress in the group's restructuring and rationalisation
programme, Mr Werner said Mercedes would make 586,000 cars this year with a
workforce of 80,000. In 1991, a workforce of 100,000 built around 570,000
units.
Although progress would slow in the second half, the company now expected to
deliver 585,000 cars during the year, compared with initial estimates of
570,000.
Figures for the first six months were distorted by extraordinarily low sales
figures in the comparable part of 1993. These were blamed on recession and
customer delay in purchasing until the introduction of the new C-Class
compact Mercedes in mid-year.
The group was enjoying especial success in the US, where car sales had risen
28 per cent to 35,700 in the first half, and were expected to increase to
72,000 for the whole year. US volumes were now approaching those enjoyed in
the 'good years' of the 1980s, Mr Werner said. Meanwhile, both Mercedes and
BMW had increased market share, while their Japanese competitors had lost
ground, he said.
The commercial vehicles business was also improving, although the German
market remained sluggish. Total truck sales rose 12.7 per cent in the first
half, and deliveries of vans were up 18 per cent.
Overseas assembly and manufacturing subsidiaries were doing particularly
well.
Conditions in the German vehicles market were underlined in official
first-half statistics, released yesterday, showing total new car
registrations up just 0.8 per cent on last year. Truck and van sales were
down 2.5 per cent.

The Financial Times


London Page 9

940723

