FT941-13040

FT  27 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Hanson


The tantalising glimpse of Beazer Homes offered by Hanson yesterday will lay
a few ghosts to rest. Beazer's land bank will last for more than three years
at the current rate of house sales, which should allay fears that the
business has been squeezed for cash under Hanson's stewardship. If land was
run down through recession, recent acquisitions have been sufficient to
replenish stocks. Important details such as Beazer's cost per plot will have
to wait for the publication of a full prospectus. But the Pounds 99m asset
write-down taken in 1992 shows that measures have been taken to protect
profit margins.
Since operating margins are already a respectable 13 per cent, though,
Beazer cannot boast the same recovery prospects as some of its peers. Unless
house price inflation returns in earnest, profits growth will have to rely
on rising unit sales. That argues for a lower share rating than house
builders now operating on wafer-thin margins. The final price will also
depend on Beazer's balance sheet. Since house builders generally absorb cash
going into the upturn - as profits are ploughed back into land - too much
debt could raise fears of a rights issue further down the line.
Assuming the prospectus contains no such nasty shocks, and a multiple of
perhaps 12 times this year's likely earnings, Hanson might still raise more
than Pounds 400m from the sale. The outperformance of other house builders
this month suggests investors are anything but tired of the sector. With
April's tax rises looming, there could be a danger in waiting too long.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940127

