FT944-2365

FT  16 DEC 94 / The Lex Column: Trafalgar House


Trafalgar House got off to a good start in the inevitable battle with
Northern Electric over which boasts the better management. Admittedly, it
was never going to be difficult to improve on Trafalgar's Pounds 427m losses
achieved in the previous two years. Performance for 1994 also benefited from
last year's Pounds 195m of property write-downs. That boosted profits from
housing and property sales, and also enabled Pounds 20m of write-backs.
Nevertheless, the new management from Hongkong Land deserves credit for
improving efficiency within the core businesses. The engineering division
was always a world leader with stable revenues throughout the recession, but
management controls had vanished. Under the new regime, engineering costs
fell by Pounds 30m last year, following 2,000 redundancies. Performance may
have been hit by a Pounds 22m restructuring charge and tight margins as
Trafalgar works through an order book built during the recession. But the
engineering division is now highly geared towards recovery.
This year, group profits will rise rapidly as exceptional losses fall. But
there is a danger that this could be eclipsed by its interest in Northern.
Steady but boring utility earnings would dilute the impact of an
engineering-led recovery. Moreover, even if a bid for Northern does not
proceed, Hongkong Land has signalled it wants to put more money into an
enlarged Trafalgar. That may reduce the opportunity for earnings growth.
Investors should be wary.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

941216

