FT942-14857

FT  19 APR 94 / EBRD chairwoman gives warning on gradualism in Russia


   By REUTER


Western bankers and economic policymakers yesterday used the relaunch of the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to reinforce the Russian
leadership's commitment to the structural reform needed to underpin moves
towards a market economy and improve access to foreign finance, write
Anthony Robinson, Leyla Boulton and Chrystia Freeland in St Petersburg.
Citing the example of 'fast-track' Central European countries like Poland
and the Czech Republic, Mrs Anne Wibble, chairwoman of the bank's governors,
warned that gradualism would not ease the pain of transition but lead to a
'vicious circle of prolonged high inflation, capital flight and economic
stagnation with high social costs'. A similar message was relayed by G7
deputies at an earlier closed session meeting with Mr Victor Chernomyrdin,
Russia's prime minister who was encouraged to continue the tight monetary
policies inherited from Mr Boris Fyodorov, the ousted finance minister, and
create a more welcoming legal and fiscal environment for foreign investors.
In his opening speech at the EBRD conference Mr Chernomyrdin said 'Russia's
commitment to reform and structural adjustments remains the linchpin of
Russian economic policy'. But he called on the EBRD and other western
institutions to co-ordinate their efforts and proposed a specialised
international agency to insure investment projects in Russia against
non-commercial risk. He warned that without new factories built with the aid
of foreign investment, reforms would be vulnerable.
Reuter adds: Mrs Wibble is expected to be succeeded after her one-year term
in the chair by Mr Pedro Solbes, Spanish economy minister.
Observer, Page 17

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940419

