FT942-16352

FT  11 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Up front on leases


It would be welcome if the Accounting Standards Board clarified accounting
guidelines in the wake of the Pentos fiasco. It remains to be seen, however,
whether its reforms will be enough to prevent abuse of reverse premiums -
payments by landlords to tenants who take on a long-term lease. If the ASB
simply recommends that the benefit is spread over the first five years,
shareholders may remain unaware of the full risks a retailer is running. The
low average rents which retailers will pay in that time may still encourage
reckless expansion. Equally, shareholders may be in for a nasty shock after
a five-year rent review when the full impact of the lease hits home.
There is thus a strong case for accounts to separate out the amount received
in reverse premiums and their contribution to profits in any one year. Had
NatWest Securities not raised the issue in the Pentos case, shareholders
might have remained completely unaware of it until the rope trick collapsed.
Equally, it can be argued that rent-free periods and landlords'
contributions to fitting-out expenses should also be disclosed.
Reverse premiums are becoming less common as the property market recovers,
but the issue remains important because retailers that have expanded or
recycled their store portfolios during the recession will approach the
critical rent review hurdle in the next few years. Inflation may not bail
out expensive purchases as it has in the past. For some companies the
increased cash outflow may be insignificant, for others critical.
Shareholders should be allowed to judge the sheep from the goats.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940411

