FT943-12851

FT  22 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: IBM


Everybody knew that IBM was massively overweight. But few expected that the
computer giant could cut its fat quite as quickly as it has. For the second
time in a row, quarterly profits have outpaced investor expectations.
Earnings per share in the three-months to end-June at Dollars 1.14 were 60
per cent higher than consensus forecasts. Mr Louis Gerstner, who took over
as Big Blue's chairman and chief executive last year, had more good news on
cost-cutting yesterday. The group's original 1992 target of lopping off
Dollars 7bn of costs by 1996 has been raised to Dollars 8bn.
While the stringent diet is both necessary and welcome, it is the relatively
easy part of IBM's strategy to return to health. The more difficult part
will be to change the group's culture so it becomes faster-thinking and
faster-moving. Otherwise, its market share will continue to be gobbled up by
more dynamic rivals such as Compaq. Yesterday's results provide little
evidence that it is winning this battle. The rate of decline in revenues
from mainframes, its traditional stronghold, did slow. But it was still a
decline.
Performance in the faster-growing personal computer market was
disappointing. Sales in the US were flat, with the only growth coming from
international markets. Compaq, by contrast, reported a 53 per cent jump in
second-quarter sales earlier this week. Unless Mr Gerstner can find new
sources of revenue, the only option will be to keep hacking away at IBM's
costs. Big Blue may then be profitable but terribly shrunken.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940722

