FT941-13043

FT  27 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Live now, pay later


The gilts market was inclined to shrug off the disappointing result of
yesterday's gilt auction. In the short run it may have reasons for doing so.
Overseas investors have little interest in stocks with a maturity as long as
15 years, so this auction depended more than usual on domestic investors.
The run-up in the market since the initial auction announcement and the
uncertain tone of international bond markets may have made them more
selective about the timing and price of their purchases. That does not add
up to a basic shift in direction, but it does add piquancy to the question
of the government's apparently more relaxed attitude to public sector pay.
Even on this score, gilt bulls can find reasons not to worry. With price
pressures so depressed there is little risk of pay review body awards
rekindling general inflation. The government may manage to finance the
awards with productivity improvements. If it does not, the impact on the
PSBR should be small, and nothing to worry about when it is well ahead with
funding.
The danger lies in the slightly longer term. A year ago the political
pressure on the government was to cut interest rates in the face of a weak
economy. Now it is focused more on the fiscal side as MPs have become aware
of the impact of lower rates on savers and the unpopularity of higher taxes.
The government is pretty well locked into its programme of tax increases but
there is always room for slippage on spending. Unless it is careful, fiscal
policy could turn out to be looser and interest rates higher than the City
now assumes. Neither gilts nor equities could view that prospect with
relish.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940127

