FT942-14456

FT  20 APR 94 / UK Company News: Richmond Oil wins more time


   By PEGGY HOLLINGER


Richmond Oil and Gas, the natural resources company whose shares have been
suspended at 4 1/2 p since September, has been given a temporary reprieve
from delisting following an appeal to the Stock Exchange Quotations
Committee.
The company, which has lost or sold virtually all of its original assets
since flotation in 1989, now has six months in which to fulfil conditions
relating to its business if it is to retain the quote. At the annual meeting
in February the company had said it expected the shares to resume trading
within weeks.
If the suspension is eventually lifted, Richmond will have to submit
detailed financial information as if coming to the market for the first
time. This is likely be an expensive process for the lossmaking company.
Two previous applications to have the suspension lifted were rejected on the
grounds that Richmond was unable to demonstrate 'it had a business
sufficient to support its expected market capitalisation'.
The company's main asset is an interest in a Siberian joint venture to
enhance oil production. Richmond has not been forthcoming on details of the
venture, although it said letters of intent had been signed for projects in
two eastern European countries. In March, the company issued shares to
repurchase its interest in the venture from Northstar Energy, a Panamanian
company owned by Annum International, a Luxembourg vehicle for Lithuanian
and US interests.
Richmond has been beset with difficulties in recent years. In 1992 creditors
foreclosed on its main asset, while the sale of certain properties has been
revised and delayed several times. Transactions surrounding its flotation
and a subsequent rights issue are under investigation by the Serious Fraud
Office.
The company said this week it was confident it would meet the Stock Exchange
conditions.

The Financial Times


London Page 27

940420

