FT941-12904

FT  27 JAN 94 / Slovo dismisses business fears


   By MATTHEW CURTIN


   JOHANNESBURG


Mr Joe Slovo, the national chairman of the South African Communist party,
yesterday said that business concerns that the ANC and its allies were bent
on nationalisation were unwarranted. At a meeting of prominent businessmen,
he emphasised that there should be no cause for concern about the future
independence of the mining industry.
Mr Slovo, fourth on the ANC's electoral list and a strong contender for a
seat in the non-racial parliament, said the organisation did not advance 'a
mechanistic policy of across-the-board nationalisation' because it would
prove too costly and counter-productive. He described the 'hullabaloo' about
'nationalising' mineral rights as alarmist because the ANC's intention was
to only ensure a new government had room for intervention in the sector.
'The Chamber of Mines knows perfectly well it is not going to lose its
mines,' he added. However, nationalisation remained a policy option and the
SACP retained its ultimate vision of achieving 'socialised means of
production'.
The long-standing dispute between the ANC and South Africa's mining houses
gathered momentum last week after the publication of the organisation's
reconstruction and development programme. Mr Paul Jordan, the ANC's
co-ordinator of mineral and energy affairs policy, proposed that a new
government would seek the return of mineral rights from the private sector
and intervene in the management and marketing of minerals.
On Tuesday, an ANC briefing on its mining policy provoked an angry reaction
from industry leaders. Representatives from Anglo American, Johannesburg
Consolidated Investment and Gencor said the ANC's proposals flew in the face
of economic reality.

The Financial Times


International Page 4

940127

