FT942-16350

FT  11 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Air France


Today's ballot on Air France's restructuring plan may be a defining moment
for the French economy. After only six of its 14 trade unions recommended
the deal, Air France raised the stakes by seeking direct approval from its
40,000 workers. If they reject the plan, the chairman has vowed to resign,
the government's FFr20bn subsidy package will be withdrawn, and Mr Edouard
Balladur's government will be plunged into a fresh political crisis. With
the government under pressure following recent student unrest, that
political uncertainty may further disturb the franc, which has been wobbling
of late.
Approval is critical if the government's reformist credentials are to remain
intact. Yet Air France's future is far from assured even if the
restructuring is supported. By international standards, Air France is a
desperately uncompetitive carrier. The restructuring proposals, including a
salary freeze, changed working practices and the shedding of 5,000 jobs, are
modest in relation to the scale of its problems. Air France lost FFr7.5bn
last year and carries total debts of about FFr37bn. The goal of privatising
Air France remains a distant prospect.
The political difficulties preventing sufficiently radical restructuring may
ensure that Air France lingers in the land of the living dead, halfway
between state control and commercial reality. With the European Commission
bearing down on state subsidies and competitors stepping up the pressure in
Air France's backyard, that is an uncomfortable place to exist.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940411

