FT941-13042

FT  27 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: W H Smith


W H Smith's rather glum results neatly underlined the tough trading
conditions in the high street. While the company held on to its gross margin
and reported an accelerating sales trend towards Christmas, raising turnover
is clearly still a tough job. That is unfortunate, since pressure on margins
is likely to mount in several of Smith's businesses. Thus far News
International has borne the full weight of its newspaper price reductions.
If the lower prices become permanent, there must be a strong temptation to
share the pain with distributors and retailers. Lower CD prices - ironically
something for which Smith's has been arguing - may be on the way. Unless the
market grows substantially as a result, Smith's revenues will decline. If
the Net Book Agreement eventually goes, it may well cut margins at the
popular end of the market.
All of that will test Smith's management skills, particularly since in the
past the company has had the good fortune to operate in markets, such as
books and newspapers, with above average inflation. Lower margin businesses
and tough competition mean slips will not be so easily forgiven. It will be
interesting to see whether the company can cut its cost base to adjust to
that world. As well as improvements behind the scenes, that may mean rolling
out good ideas like Virgin Megastores faster. And if that is not enough to
keep the new chief executive, Sir Malcolm Field, occupied, there is always
the only partly defused land mine which is Do It All.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940127

