FT943-1039

FT  26 SEP 94 / Lebanon counts cost of civil war


   By MARK NICHOLSON


   BEIRUT


As many as 1m Lebanese nationals emigrated during the civil war years of
1975-1990, while 450,000 people fled fighting to become internal migrants
during the period, according to the country's first official study into the
demographic consequences of the war, published by the ministry of social
affairs.
By the ministry's estimate, however, some 25 per cent of those who left
Lebanon during the war, as many as 250,000 Lebanese, are expected to seek a
return to their homeland by 1998. The study says 40,000 came home in 1992
and 1993 after the war and these numbers are likely to rise this year and
next.
The figures were prepared for the recent international conference on
population and development in Cairo, which Lebanon decided to boycott only
days before its opening. However, many of the study's findings have been
released in Beirut in the past week.
The Lebanese government says it considers attracting back the expatriates to
be a priority. 'We have lost the greatest part of the middle class in this
country,' Mr Riad Salame, the central bank governor, said in an interview
this week. 'Restoring this class is essential - the only resource Lebanon
has is the skill and education of its people.' While allowing that there are
no precise figures for the war years, the research suggests that fully 7 per
cent of the Lebanese population, which it estimated at between 2.2m and 2.6m
excluding Palestinian refugees in the country, died during the conflict and
10 per cent were injured.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

940926

