FT941-12877

FT  28 JAN 94 / German workers pay for past deals


   By CHRISTOPHER PARKES


   FRANKFURT


German engineering workers, threatening warning strikes in pursuit of higher
pay, were yesterday offered grim reminders of the cost of deals in the past.
Figures published yesterday showed the car and mechanical engineering
industries alone shed 240,000 jobs last year. Ms Erika Emmerich, president
of the VDA vehicle makers' association, said the loss of 70,000 automotive
industry jobs, after 60,000 in 1992, was only partly due to a 23 per cent
slump in 1993 output.
'The need to restore international competitiveness through a reduction in
costs is just as important,' she said. Labour costs in a German car factory
last year, at DM49.60 (Pounds 18.9) an hour, were still almost double those
in the UK, according to VDA officials. Wage costs had to be reduced and
working times made more flexible. 'That is the only way we can maintain
Germany as a vehicle production base,' she said.
Mr Wolfgang Koch, a regional leader of the VDMA mechanical engineering
association, reported the loss of 170,000 jobs in 1993 and said the erosion
would continue.
While both officials, representing Germany's biggest industries,
acknowledged the worst of the recession was past, they held out little hope
of a speedy recovery. Ms Emmerich predicted 'stagnation' in the motor trade.
Regional negotiations on the IG Metall union's 6 per cent pay claim ended
without any apparent movement from either side last night. The national
leadership is expected to decide today whether to go ahead with threatened
warning strikes starting on Monday.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

940128

