FT942-15618

FT  14 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Lasmo drills for cash


Lasmo's rights issue had been telegraphed to the market with all the skill
of an amateur fighter's punch. As well as being obvious, the issue's deep
discount speaks volumes about how hard it must have been to get away and how
badly the company needs the money. A sense of urgency is also implied by the
indecently short three-week gap between passing the dividend and demanding
money from shareholders. On the surface, Lasmo's interest cover and gearing
looked sustainable, but the demands of developing fields will soon prove a
heavy drain on cash. It is hard to resist the idea that banks required more
comfort before supporting the management's expensive plans.
There is also a nasty feeling that investors are paying for management
mistakes. Lasmo has proved an effective machine for melting down shareholder
value in recent years, and institutions must have been reluctant to feed in
more raw material. Presumably the discount will encourage most to stump up.
Enthusiastic US holders may also come in provided that the novelty of a
rights issue in New York does not deter them.
The company is even trying self-help by cutting its costs. Yet it is not the
operator of much of its production and there is a limited degree to which it
is master of its own destiny. Lasmo may be a call option on the crude oil
price whose expiry date has just been extended, but the company still needs
oil consistently above Dollars 16 a barrel to make money. If that had been
the bet investors wanted, they might have got the same thing a good deal
cheaper on the commodity exchanges.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940414

