FT941-3436

FT  16 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Mirror Group


Mirror Group Newspapers is in something of a bind. Tabloid newspaper sales
are in long-term decline with the Sun's price offensive sharpening the Daily
Mirror's falls. MGN is therefore keen to diversify. But with lowly-rated
shares and gearing of 73 per cent, the group is severely disadvantaged
against rivals boasting cash in hand and high-priced paper. MGN's proposed
alliance with Newspaper Publishing may yield some cost savings but the deal
remains marginal. The ingenuity of MGN's managers in unearthing expansion
opportunities will be fully tested.
At least MGN can keep profits moving by running its existing businesses more
efficiently. Trading margins - excluding restructuring charges - have
already risen to 24 per cent. But further gains should come from moving to
Canary Wharf and improved utilisation rates at its print plants. Advertising
revenue has been growing strongly as a result of some smarter newspaper
supplements and the general market bounce.
Arguably, MGN has been sensible in not responding more aggressively to price
wars. But the 1 per cent fall in circulation revenue suggests it is now
being badly burnt by the Sun. The real worry comes if the Mirror's decline
endangers its advertising rate card. With such doubts in mind, one can only
admire the prescience of the administrators in placing their stake last
September. Having outperformed the media sector by 44 per cent in the six
months before the placing, MGN has underperformed by 13 per cent in the six
months since.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940316

