FT942-15366

FT  15 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Forte


The good news from Forte is that trading has finally started to improve, at
least in its London hotels where occupancy rates have risen and the bargain
hunters are being squeezed out. The bad news is that there is a long way
still to go before the company is lifted off interest cover of just 1.8
times. Even after last year's reduction, the dividend is still not covered
by earnings before exceptional items. The annual results show the cash
position remains tight. Indeed there would have been a substantial outflow
in 1993-94 without the impact of disposals, lower capital spending and last
year's enhanced scrip dividend.
Forte argues, probably rightly, that it can live with this situation a while
longer. There is more recovery to come and the company has yet to reap the
full benefits of its new management structure. Capital spending will have to
rise this year, though, and that in turn will have to be financed by
disposals. At least the write-down of its hotel portfolio, which is in
striking contrast with Queens Moat's upwards revaluation, will add to its
flexibility in selling surplus hotels. Forte could even afford to finance
any Meridien deal with debt by ear-marking the proceeds from an eventual
sale of its remaining minority stakes in Alpha Airports Group and Gardner
Merchant.
But this still leaves the impression of living from hand to mouth. It
requires an act of faith to believe that Forte will achieve a worthwhile
return on assets or that it will trade its way out of debt. Having sold its
cash-generative catering businesses, the group is more vulnerable. A
historic multiple of more than 35 before exceptionals leaves no room for
error.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940415

