FT941-4104

FT  12 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: UK brewing


At first glance, this week's decision by Whitbread to sell its regional
brewing stakes suggests an inclination to expand more in leisure than
brewing. In fact its strategic options are about as open as before. All that
can be said for certain is that Whitbread will not use the stakes acquired
from Whitbread Investment Co last year to make full bids for the regional
brewers. The most obvious explanation is that Whitbread does not want to
acquire new estates of varying quality when that would require offsetting
sales of pubs under the government's competition rules.
Indeed the rules make it so complicated for big brewers to buy small ones
that the strategic imperative must be considerable to make it worthwhile.
Consolidation may yet come, though, as a result of regional brewers buying
each other. Once the Whitbread sale has been absorbed, selective bid
premiums could appear in their shares. Unlike the big brewers, the regionals
have scope to expand their pub estates. That would lessen their dependence
on a particular regional economy, add efficiency to food operations and give
them the clout to negotiate larger discounts from outside beer suppliers.
There may be less room for brewing. Even large regionals lack the scale to
develop their brands nationally - which is why opportunities may yet arise
for Whitbread in brewing. It has shown with Boddington what it can do with a
regional beer brand while its original owner concentrated on retailing. All
it needed to begin with was the brewery and the brand, not the pubs.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940312

