FT942-14738

FT  19 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Oil shares


The oil share bulls are in the ascendant. The big UK integrated houses,
Shell and BP, have each outperformed the market by nearly 10 per cent this
month. Although both fell yesterday, that was only in line with the market's
overall decline. The immediate cause is the rise in crude prices, up from
Dollars 13.50 at the end of March to over Dollars 15 now. OPEC's failure to
cut production quotas, which prompted the earlier dive in oil prices, does
not look so bad on reflection. Given that most cartel members are operating
at near full capacity, there is less scope for cheating than in the past.
Meanwhile, economic recovery in much of the industrialised world is fuelling
demand. It has also helped boost petrochemical prices and refining margins.
But the oil price is not the only factor driving shares in the longer term.
Determined moves to cut costs and redeploy assets have played an important
part. This has been most apparent at BP, whose need to put its house in
order was greater than Shell's. Its management is no longer content to rely
on higher crude prices to deliver its profit targets. Shell's incentive to
restructure is not so pressing. But with its massive investment programme
and a return on capital still below the best of its US peers, it too needs
to deliver productivity growth.
Oil prices could still spring some nasty surprises. The main risks are that
news of breaches in OPEC ceilings or of increased stockbuilding will provoke
wobbles. But medium-term prospects look good.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

940419

