FT943-13095

FT  21 JUL 94 / PM in change of heart over military


   By WILLIAM DAWKINS


   TOKYO


Japan's new socialist prime minister yesterday formally declared the
military to be constitutional, an historic retreat from his party's deep
pacifism.
Mr Tomiichi Murayama was greeted by shouts and applause in parliament, where
he announced his political about-turn. It came in response to a question
from Mr Tsutomu Hata, his predecessor, who was needling him for forcing Mr
Hata's resignation three weeks ago. Mr Hata, a firm supporter of the
self-defence forces, stepped down rather than face a no-confidence vote from
Mr Murayama's Social Democratic party and the conservative Liberal
Democratic party.
'Please listen to this carefully,' Mr Murayama told the chamber. 'As long as
we keep the defence-only posture and as long as they are kept at a minimum,
the Self-Defence Forces are constitutional.'
Mr Murayama's remarks will be greeted with relief by the armed forces, of
which he automatically became commander in chief on taking the prime
ministership.
Under nearly four decades of LDP rule, Japan grew to become the world's
largest defence spender after the US, if military pensions are included.
This is despite article nine of Japan's 1946 constitution, which says 'land,
sea and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be
maintained.'
Officially, the SDP takes the constitution literally, though its moderate
leadership has long admitted that the party's anti-military stance is
unrealistic.
This is the latest sign of SDP leaders' willingness to abandon party
principles in the interests of staying in the government coalition with the
LDP, which brought Mr Murayama to power as the first socialist prime
minister in 47 years.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

940721

