FT944-11052

FT  08 NOV 94 / The Lex Column: BAA


Refurbishing airport terminals may bring long-term benefits, but as BAA
admitted yesterday such improvements have a short-term price. Growth in
retail spending per passenger in the first six months of the current
financial year was limited to just 1.8 per cent compared with the first half
of last year because shopping facilities were being rebuilt. Brokers who
already knew that passenger numbers had climbed 7 per cent had expected to
upgrade their profits forecasts. The disappointing spending figures prompted
a fall of nearly 5 per cent in the share price.
Nevertheless, BAA is certain to benefit from the growth in civil aviation.
The channel tunnel may have some impact on passenger volumes next year, but
in the worst case damage should be limited to the equivalent of six months
growth. Meanwhile, spending per passenger should rise once the terminal
improvements are completed. At Heathrow terminals three and four, where work
is completed, retail income per passenger has improved 21 per cent and 83
per cent respectively.
With operating costs firmly under control, up just 3.5 per cent year on
year, BAA is well managed. But with a price earnings ratio for the current
year of 19, its shares trade at a 30 per cent premium. Given that earnings
grew 12 per cent in the first half, such a premium may look expensive
compared with other premium rated groups such as Reuter. But what BAA lacks
in growth, it makes up in predictability. With its monopoly position and
increasingly lenient regulatory regime, there is little to knock the group
off its steady upward path.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

941108

