FT944-5909

FT  01 DEC 94 / The Lex Column: A cracking cartel


The European Commission's Ecu248m fine on the European cement cartel is a
record but may have little impact on the share prices of the companies
concerned. Large penalties had already been fully discounted by the market.
In fact, the fines - at up to 6 per cent of relevant 1992 turnover - were
lower than the 10 per cent some had feared. So share prices could even
benefit a bit.
The bigger danger for cement makers would be if the Commission's crackdown
led to a more competitive market. Certainly, they would be extremely foolish
to collude to carve up the market. But collusion may not be necessary to
keep competition at bay. The high cost of transporting cement means the
market is naturally divided into local monopolies. It typically does not pay
one manufacturer to ship cement to a different territory even if prices
there are high. Nor is there much incentive to build new plants in
high-price locations. There is no need for new capacity and in any case
Pounds 100m in capital would have to be sunk into a new 1m tonne plant. The
risk that an established operator would react to a new entrant by slashing
prices is too great for most companies to contemplate.
Still, there are situations where more competition may develop. Coastal
regions are vulnerable since it is cheaper to transport cement by sea than
land. Cheap Greek imports have already had an impact on prices on the shores
of Spain and France. The French hinterland could also prove tempting to
competitors since prices there are much higher than the European average.
But so well dug-in are the French companies that a serious invasion would
require great bravery.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

941201

