FT941-17062

FT  06 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Kmart's store of trouble


Kmart's disappointing earnings record over the past five years certainly
demonstrates the need for management action. Yet its 1990 restructuring plan
has clearly proved insufficiently bold to rejuvenate the company's fortunes
and help it catch its arch-rival Wal-Mart. Yesterday's announcement of
further store relocations and refurbishments, and the partial flotation of
several specialist chains to help pay for it, is an attempt to tackle some
of the problems. Many of Kmart's main discount stores remain too small and
badly located to compete effectively against Wal-Mart. Its distribution
network is also inferior to Wal-Mart's which boasts technological
innovations such as satellite location of its supply lorries and
three-dimensional bar coding of goods by product and destination.
But perhaps Wal-Mart's decisive advantage has been its devolved decision
making and close integration with local communities. That has established it
as the natural local store to visit - an image which Kmart will now find it
hard to change. By contrast, Kmart's attempts to cluster its speciality
sports equipment, books and office supplies shops around a spruced up Kmart
store risks sending a confused and over-complex message to consumers. Some
of the speciality retailing operations are good, but Kmart's involvement
looks increasingly irrelevant. Kmart's share rating is now barely a third of
Wal-Mart's. Full demerger and an overhaul of all aspects of the discount
chain may be the only way to close part of the gap.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940106

