FT943-767

FT  28 SEP 94 / Longuet hints he may quit Paris government


   By DAVID BUCHAN


   PARIS


Mr Gerard Longuet yesterday indicated he would resign as French trade and
industry minister, if an investigation in the next month into the funding of
his holiday villa and of his Republican party resulted in formal charges
against him.
The embattled minister had previously said he would not resign, even if
charged. But he changed his mind after the justice minister decided to ask
the Paris prosecutor's office to widen its 'preliminary investigation' to
the minister's villa.
Mr Pierre Mehaignerie, the justice minister, said he expected the
'preliminary investigation' to be complete by the end of October, and
promised to make its conclusions public. Mr Mehaignerie said he was widening
the scope of the existing low-level inquiry - rather than immediately
putting on the case an independent magistrate empowered to bring charges -
'out of a concern to comprehend, globally and in all serenity, a complex
dossier'.
Mr Longuet has denied the allegation that he let a contractor from his home
region of Lorraine substantially subsidise the building of his St Tropez
villa. But he said yesterday that, once assured of 'an in-depth, balanced
and confidential' examination of the matter, 'I naturally accept the laws of
my country and the rule which the government has set itself.'
Prime Minister Edouard Balladur has said that ministers should resign if
charged.
The Paris prosecutor's office is already inquiring into whether Mr Longuet
personally received money in 1989-90 from companies which were also
substantial donors to his Republican party (of which Mr Longuet had also
been the treasurer), and into the extent to which he earned this money by
providing genuine consultancy services.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

940928

