FT941-5556

FT  05 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Scottish Power


A price tag of Pounds 17m for 50 out of town stores hardly looks excessive,
given that they would cost more than that to build. On that basis it is
difficult to accuse Scottish Power of overpaying for Clydesdale. On the
other hand, this is electrical retailing, which has cost the Regional
Electricity Companies an estimated Pounds 100m in the past five years. The
fact that not even the specialists such as Dixons and Comet are earning a
decent living ought to cause a chill around Scottish Power's kilt.
Electricity companies may be stuck with their high street chains, but that
is hardly a reason to propagate the problem.
Electrical retailing suffers because individual purchases are large and
goods are identical in each store. Price-checking is thus worthwhile, and
price competition becomes the primary selling weapon. Only when a new
technology is temporarily in short supply, or economic conditions are
booming, do retailers make much money.
Given the poor characteristics of the business, and Scottish Power's
declared caution about diversification, it is thus surprising that it is
expanding. The company has persuaded investors that its management has been
upgraded and is well trained for new challenges. It has bought sensibly in
gas and is looking rationally at telecoms. But since this form of retailing
has been a graveyard of many ambitions, investors may be forgiven for
feeling a little queasy.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940305

