FT941-16857

FT  07 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Metallgesellschaft


Now that the extent of Metallgesellschaft's problems are emerging, it is
clear that bank lenders have little choice but to go along with this week's
rescue package. Without it, liquidation would be inevitable, as Mr Kajo
Neukirchen, its new chief executive, pointed out yesterday. The revised loss
of DM1.87bn for 1992-93 significantly exceeds total shareholders' funds,
excluding minorities, reported for the previous year. Worryingly, only half
the losses came from oil trading, which the company says could cost another
DM1.5bn.
Against this background, it is even more astonishing that, only a month ago,
Mr Hilmar Kopper, chief executive of Deutsche Bank, was urging the public to
be relaxed about the company. The previous management may have withheld
information but the supervisory board, on which executives from both
Deutsche and Dresdner Bank play a prominent role, also failed spectacularly
to oversee the company's affairs.
Smaller outside shareholders will pay a large price. Not only will their
interests be seriously diluted by the capital injection from the banks; the
company is also now clearly being run in the interests of these same
creditors. Metallgesellschaft portrays its restructuring as a fresh start,
not least to engender the confidence needed to keep its sounder businesses
going. Whether that gives its shares recovery value is another matter.
Little has been said about the extent of disposals to pay down debt and
finance redundancies. How much will ultimately be left to earn dividends for
shareholders is an open question.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940107

