FT943-13112

FT  21 JUL 94 / US deplores Bosnian Serb peace stance


   By BRUCE CLARK


   LONDON


Mr Charles Redman, the US negotiator on Bosnia, said last night that a
serious situation had developed because of the Bosnian Serbs' failure to
agree unequivocally to an internationally sponsored peace plan. Earlier Mr
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, told Mr Redman and negotiators
from Russia, Britain, France and Germany that the plan was a 'good basis for
negotiation'. Mr Andrei Kozyrev, the Russian foreign minister, said in
Moscow that further negotiations were possible because the Bosnian Serbs had
neither accepted nor rejected the latest peace proposal. Interfax news
agency quoted Mr Kozyrev as saying the Bosnian Serbs were taking a positive
attitude to the proposed map, but they also wanted to know all aspects of
the plan. 'That is their legitimate wish,' the minister said. Mr Redman,
however, said he was disappointed that the Serbs had failed to endorse a
plan which had been presented to them on a 'take it or leave it' basis.
Asked if the Serb reply, delivered by Mr Karadzic behind closed doors, had
amounted to acceptance, the US mediator replied: 'Unfortunately, no. We were
all disappointed that the answer was not what we expected.'
In Brussels, prospects for intensified use of western air power against the
Serbs in Bosnia were clouded after some Nato members said a fresh UN mandate
would be needed to establish new 'exclusion zones'. Existing UN resolutions
have been used to justify establishment of exclusion zones, where heavy
weapons are subject to air strikes, in Sarajevo and Gorazde. Some Nato
ambassadors meeting in Brussels yesterday said existing UN mandates did not
go far enough to justify more draconian use of air power or extension of the
'exclusion zone' principle.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940721

