FT944-5908

FT  01 DEC 94 / The Lex Column: Argyll Group


Investors have long suspected that Argyll is more vulnerable to intense
competition in food retailing than J. Sainsbury or Tesco. The fears were
borne out yesterday and, as a result, the shares fell 6 per cent despite
pre-tax profits up in line with expectations.
There are three problems. First, the decline in like-for-like sales in the
first half worsened in the first six weeks of the second half. This is
worrying since like-for-like sales are rising at Sainsbury and Tesco, which
appear to have beaten off the threat from discounters. Second, gross margins
slipped in the first half, and are unlikely to show any marked improvement
over the full year as the group continues to cut prices. Third, there will
be no announcement on the group's long-awaited restructuring, expected to
cut costs by at least Pounds 30m, until the spring. It would have been
damaging to morale to announce job cuts in the busy period ahead of
Christmas. But the group should not have given the impression earlier in the
year that details would be revealed by now.
These issues apart, the group is taking the right steps to entice
high-spending young families into its stores. Moreover, the fact that sales
per square foot are far behind its bigger rivals means there is scope for an
acceleration in earnings growth as the gap is narrowed. The shares are
unlikely to fall significantly further after yesterday's correction as they
are underpinned by a yield of nearly 6 per cent assuming a full year
dividend of 12p.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

941201

