FT943-13314

FT  20 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: SB's bill of health


There is life after Tagamet. That is the message of yesterday's
second-quarter results from SmithKline Beecham. The company's prize
anti-ulcer drug came off patent in the US during the quarter but sales,
profits and margins in its pharmaceuticals division rose.
Tagamet's US sales are certainly under pressure and, since the end of the
quarter, they have fallen off a cliff. Margins in the second half will
consequently be squeezed. But new products are filling the gap. Paxil, the
group's antidepressant, in particular, is storming ahead. SB also has high
hopes for Famvir, its antiviral therapy, which is on the point of being
launched in the US. The drug has taken 25 per cent of the UK market in the
six months since it was launched.
In the medium term, much depends on the success of SB's strategy of turning
itself from a purveyor of pills into a 'total healthcare' group. May's
Dollars 2.3bn acquisition of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, a US drugs
wholesaler, gives it most of the pieces that are needed to put together such
a strategy. But it is too early to say whether DPS can be used to boost its
market share, let alone whether it can become the platform to provide total
health care. It also remains to be seen whether SB's ambitions to export the
DPS concept to Europe can succeed, given the region's socialised healthcare
systems.
SB has survived the ending of its Tagamet patent in good shape. As such, it
is in a better position than Glaxo, whose star product Zantac has yet to
face a similar fate. But the turmoil in the world drugs industry is such
that it is still hard to argue that the shares should be bought.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940720

