FT941-12958

FT  27 JAN 94 / Commodities and Agriculture: Output cut hopes lift aluminium


   By KENNETH GOODING, Mining Correspondent


Aluminium prices climbed strongly on the London Metal Exchange yesterday in
the expectation that producers will soon start cutting world-wide output.
However, some analysts were recommending caution about the outcome of last
week's negotiations, at which some of the world's big aluminium producers
attempted to work out a formula for global annual output cuts of 1.5m to 2m
tonnes.
Reports from Moscow suggested the government was working on a decree calling
for the Russian smelters to cut output by 500,000 tonnes a year. However,
various news agency reports also said the smelter managements were not keen
on the idea and were much more concerned about an argument with their
electricity suppliers about rapidly rising energy costs.
Yesterday the LME the price of aluminium for delivery in three months closed
at Dollars 1,235.75 a tonne, up Dollars 31.25, and in after hours trading
advanced to Dollars 1,240. Mr Angus MacMillan, research manager at
Billiton-Enthoven Metals, suggested that 'the market might be running ahead
of itself. Any improvement in prices will stall until we actually see action
rather than hear about intentions. If the market is disappointed, the price
will drop sharply again'.
Mr Ted Arnold at the Merrill Lynch financial services group said the
agreement between the big aluminium producing countries had taken too long
to reach and contained too many caveats. It was unlikely that governments
could find a way to enforce the arrangements, so any agreement was likely to
unravel.

The Financial Times


London Page 36

940127

