FT941-5578

FT  05 MAR 94 / International Company News: Credit Suisse rises 53% despite
provisions jump


   By IAN RODGER


   ZURICH


Credit Suisse, the flagship universal bank within the CS Holding financial
services group, has reported a 53 per cent rise in consolidated net income
in 1993 to SFr1.46bn (Dollars 1.02bn) in spite of an 81 per cent jump in
loss provisions to SFr2.8bn.
The figures are distorted by the effects of the acquisition of Swiss
Volksbank early last year, although the main business trends - huge gains in
income from trading and services more than offsetting depressed interest
income and the cost of bad loans - stand out.
Trading income, the largest source of group profit, soared 118 per cent to
SFr3.4bn. The London-based 50 per cent owned derivatives subsidiary, Credit
Suisse Financial Products, more than doubled its net income to SFr444m.
Commission income, mainly from asset management, jumped 54 per cent to
SFr2.6bn. Interest income was up 20 per cent to SFr2.8bn but solely due to
the consolidation of Volksbank. Both banks saw declines in their interest
income. Excluding Volksbank, profit before taxes and provisions was up 62
per cent to SFr4.6bn. Including Volksbank, the figure was SFr5.1bn, up 79
per cent.
Volksbank, which was close to collapse when CS made its SFr1.6bn agreed bid
in January, 1993, was also responsible for SFr727m of the SFr1.26bn growth
in the group's provisions. In addition, the group provided a SFr270m
extraordinary contribution to Volksbank to enable it to show a nominal SFr2m
net income.
Total Credit Suisse group assets at the year end were up 34 per cent to
SFr232bn.

The Financial Times


London Page 13

940305

