FT942-12204

FT  30 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Fed up with the dollar


Since the problem in the foreign exchange markets has been the dollar's
relationship to the yen, it is surprising that the Federal Reserve's initial
intervention yesterday involved the sale of D-marks. Part of the reason must
be the fear that a chaotic period of generalised weakness would ensue if the
dollar breached the Y100 level. That would deter overseas investors from
bidding in the Treasury's looming bond auctions. Part must be a politically
inspired reluctance to single Japan out for help at a time when bilateral
trade tensions remain unresolved. Congress would surely bridle to see the US
bargaining position on trade weakened in this way. The Fed has been discreet
about intervention carried out on behalf of the Bank of Japan earlier in the
week.
The trouble with such a subtle approach is that it can easily appear
half-hearted. At least Mr Lloyd Bentsen's remarks yesterday suggested that
the US Treasury has got the message. In the case of Japan he is right that
too much exchange market volatility would impair growth. A dollar in free
fall below Y100 would cripple its industry to the point where economic
recovery would be undermined.
The Clinton administration may have to be more explicit about its desire not
to allow trade tensions to spill over into the exchange market, though.
While negotiations are paralysed by Japan's political problems, some will
always expect the US to exert pressure via the exchange rate. Nor is it as
if the dollar has much fundamental strength behind it. Interest rates are
rising, but the currency is weighed down by a large current account deficit
and investment outflows. The Y100 mark may be tested again.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940430

