FT944-14366

FT  24 OCT 94 / Pensions award hits budget


   By DAVID PILLING


   BUENOS AIRES


Argentina's economy minister, Mr Domingo Cavallo, is today expected to ask
congress to approve an amendment to the 1994 budget providing for extra
spending of between Dollars 1bn and Dollars 1.5bn in order to meet pension
payments for the rest of the year. The request, the first retroactive budget
amendment since Mr Cavallo launched economic reforms in 1991, has added to
speculation that Argentina's fiscal position has deteriorated sharply in the
second half of the year as tax collection has fallen and spending climbed.
Mr Daniel Artana, an economist at the Foundation for Latin American Economic
Investigation, said that, although Argentina's public accounts remained
'fairly solid', the country was 'in a more fragile situation than it used to
be.' The worsening fiscal position threatened to derail further cuts in
payroll taxes planned for next year, part of efforts to sharpen Argentine
competitiveness, Mr Artana said.
Mr Cavallo said the additional funds, which would increase the 1994 federal
budget to about Dollars 41.5bn, were needed because of recent court
decisions granting higher pensions. The Peronist administration, which has
been trying to stop pension indexation in an effort to trim spending, says
the court rulings set a precedent which could cost the treasury up to
Dollars 300m extra a month.
Mr Cavallo is also expected to seek legislation that would curb the ability
of judges to increase pensions for thousands of other retired people seeking
legal redress. However, efforts to save money will be weighed against the
danger of losing electoral support, given that presidential elections are
less than seven months away.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

941024

