FT942-12447

FT  29 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Life assurance


The stock market was quick to appreciate the danger last summer when the
Treasury told life assurance companies to stop stalling over commission
disclosure. The sector has since underperformed by 20 per cent. Research by
the Securities and Investments Board suggests this was not an over-reaction.
The anticipated 10 per cent drop in sales as a result of disclosure would be
a sharp reversal of fortune from the boom years of the 1980s. Since the UK
already spends more on life assurance in relation to national income than
any other OECD country, a bounce in sales thereafter cannot be taken for
granted.
The pain will not be spread evenly. Companies with low expenses and
distribution costs might actually benefit in the longer term. The new rules
may thus contribute to the onward march of bancassurance. With almost 200
life companies serving a working population of 25m, rationalisation is
overdue. But the Pounds 1bn annual cost-saving predicted by SIB's research
will only be delivered if commissions actually fall. That will not happen if
consumers simply buy less life insurance. For market forces to have the
desired effect, they also need to use the additional information to shop
around.
Both SIB and the Personal Investment Authority - should it get off the
ground - are reluctant to regulate commissions directly. Under current
legislation they may not have the authority to do so. Unless disclosure
brings about a real reduction in costs and commissions, though, the argument
in favour of the direct approach will be greatly strengthened.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940429

