FT944-10953

FT  08 NOV 94 / World Stock Markets (America): Chrysler down on Kerkorian
speculation


   By PATRICK HARVERSON


   NEW YORK


Wall Street
US share prices ended little changed yesterday following a lacklustre
trading session, as many market participants stayed on the sidelines
awaiting fresh economic news due later this week, writes Patrick Harverson
in New York.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished 1.35 up at 3,808.87, having spent
the entire day near to opening levels. The Standard & Poor's 500 gained 0.79
at 463.07, but the American SE composite closed 2.50 lower at 450.41 and the
Nasdaq composite down 3.77 at 762.31. New York SE volume was 256.2m shares.
From the start, stocks moved unconvincingly within a narrow range on either
side of opening values as the market struggled to find a direction. Early
declines in bond prices did not help sentiment, but the losses were
shortlived, and it was clear by mid-morning that stocks were not going to
get much of a lead from bonds.
The lack of any upward momentum, meanwhile, was due to the lacklustre nature
of overall investor sentiment, which remained weak following Friday's
September employment report. Trading throughout the session was quiet, with
many investors clearly wary of committing funds to the market ahead of
today's crucial mid-term elections, and Thursday's key inflation data.
Chrysler fell Dollars 1 to Dollars 46 3/8 amid speculation that Mr Kirk
Kerkorian, the financier, might sell some of his 9.2 per cent shareholding.
Technology issues, which enjoyed some gains last week, were again in the
news after three groups, Apple Computer, IBM and Motorola, announced that
they had agreed on a new hardware reference platform for the PowerPC
microprocessor which should deliver a wider range of operating system and
application choices. IBM put on Dollars  3/4 at Dollars 71 7/8 and Apple,
traded on the Nasdaq market, firmed Dollars 3/8 to Dollars 40 3/4. Motorola
failed to hang on to its early gain and finished Dollars 2 down at Dollars
56 1/2
Snapple Beverage slipped Dollars  3/16 to Dollars 13 5/8 after documents
filed relating to the planned takeover of Snapple by Quaker Oats showed that
Snapple recently cut its internal earnings projections for the remainder of
the year.
Nike advanced Dollars 1 7/8 to Dollars 61 1/2 after investment bank Goldman
Sachs raised its rating on the stock.

The Financial Times


London Page 43

941108

