FT942-14428

FT  20 APR 94 / International Company News: Two divisional managers set to
leave Apple Computer


   By LOUSIE KEHOE


   SAN FRANCISCO


Two of Apple Computer's five divisional general managers, who report
directly to chief executive Mr Michael Spindler, are to leave the company.
Mr Gaston Bastiaens, general manager of Apple's Personal Interactive
Electronics (PIE) division - which develops and markets Apple's Newton
technology - will be leaving Apple to set up his own business activities,
the company said.
Mr Morris Taradalsky, general manager of the Apple Business Systems (ABS)
division, which develops and markets high-performance 'servers' for office
networks, has resigned to join MicroNet Technology, a privately-held
developer of data storage systems, as president and chief executive. Before
joining Apple in 1989, Mr Taradalsky worked at IBM for 18 years.
Apple described the departures as an 'unfortunate coincidence'. They were
unrelated, it said.
Mr Bastiaens' departure follows a statement by Mr Spindler, last week,
publicly acknowledging for the first time that sales of the Newton hand-held
'personal digital assistant' had failed to live up to the company's
expectations.
Newton was introduced last year by Mr John Sculley, former Apple chairman
and chief executive, who has since left the company. 'We believe that Newton
will be seen as the defining technology of the digital age,' he said at the
product launch.
Instead, Newton has become the butt of jokes about its inaccurate
hand-writing recognition technology, and has been widely-criticised by
industry analysts for its limited communications capabilities. In January,
Apple said 80,000 units had been shipped. It declines to update the sales
report.

The Financial Times


London Page 32

940420

