FT942-14870

FT  19 APR 94 / Economic Watch: Construction equipment dip


   By ANDREW BAXTER


   London


Sales of construction equipment in Europe fell by 11 per cent last year  -
the biggest annual fall for more than a decade - and could drop a further 5
per cent this year because of a sharp decline in demand in the biggest
market: Germany. The forecast, from the London-based Corporate Intelligence
Group, provides a gloomy backdrop to Intermat, the construction equipment
exhibition, which opens today in Paris. The research group says unit sales
of equipment fell last year for the third year running, to 88,177 from
98,669 in 1992, and predicts they will decline to 83,500 units this year.
Post-reunification Germany accounted for 46 per cent of European sales last
year, compared with just 18 per cent in 1989. This rise was fuelled by the
building boom and demand for equipment in eastern Germany, but the peak
passed in 1992. Overall German sales fell 12 per cent last year, and another
15 per cent fall is expected this year before stabilising in 1995.
Poland's first-quarter industrial output grew by 10.6 per cent year-on-year,
the central statistical office said. This is almost double the 5.6 per cent
for the whole of 1993.
Capital flows into the Czech Republic rose 37 per cent in 1993 from a year
earlier to nearly Dollars 2.9bn, according to the Czech national bank.
Portugal's industrial production index fell 1.3 per cent in December after
rising 5.5 per cent in November, the national statistics institute said
yesterday.
Norway's current account surplus rose to NKr4.24bn (Pounds 387m) in January
from NKr3.39bn (Pounds 310m) a year earlier, according to the central bureau
of statistics.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940419

