FT941-4243

FT  11 MAR 94 / London Stock Exchange: Brewery stakes offloaded


   By CHRISTOPHER PRICE, JOEL KIBAZO, PETER JOHN and STEVE THOMPSON


The recent heightened activity among drinks stocks burst dramatically into
the open yesterday as Whitbread offloaded a substantial chunk of its
holdings in six domestic brewers in a deal valued by the company at Pounds
225m. The move prompted sharp falls among the stocks, while Whitbread shares
shot forward.
Dealers said BZW had taken on the entire Whitbread holding and sold on the
shares to institutions - one of the biggest bought deals seen in the market.
In the case of Boddington, in which Whitbread had a near 20 per cent stake,
BZW was thought to have bought the stock at 271p a share and placed it at
276p - a 6.5 per cent discount to the overnight price. 'It was brave
broking,' said one rival trader admiringly. Other blocks showed Greene King
being bought at 494p and sold at 499p and Vaux going through at 263 1/2 p
and 266p, a deep discount to the underlying share price.
The Boddington stake was said to have been snapped up quickly, as was the 10
per cent holding in Greene King. Vaux (6 per cent) and Greenalls (3.2 per
cent) were said to have gone smoothly, but there were question marks at the
end of trading as to whether all the 21 per cent in Marston had been
successfully shifted. One trader said some 3m shares remained unsold. The 12
per cent stake in Morland was also thought to have gone through in late
trading.
By the close, Boddington shares had fallen 9 to 286p with 47m turned over,
Greene King was 11 off at 518p on volume of 8.3m, Vaux was steady at 284p
with turnover of 18m, Morland slipped 2 to 508p, and Marston fell 7 to 290p
on 35m. Whitbread surged forward, but faded to close 5 ahead at 552p.
Analysts said the sale wiped out Whitbread's debt and could launch the group
on the acquisition trail, with a retailing outfit in its sights. They added
that the benefit to the group's earnings would result in an upgrade of
profits forecasts of around 3 per cent.

The Financial Times


London Page 42

940311

