FT942-15616

FT  14 APR 94 / The Lex Column: RMC Group


RMC has become a byword for reliability in the building materials sector.
Its 1993 results show why. Despite suffering badly in France, California and
Spain, RMC still lifted pre-tax profits 7 per cent. Good husbandry ensured
its earnings grew even faster, climbing 26 per cent. Unlike Redland, RMC has
demonstrated an old-fashioned aversion to issuing paper during the
recession, protecting its earnings line. Moreover, RMC's tax rate has
dropped from almost 36 per cent to 26 per cent as it has reaped the benefits
of investment incentives in east Germany and started utilising accumulated
tax losses at its merged German businesses. RMC is now in the happy position
that the higher its German profits climb, the lower its group tax rate
falls. Given that the German construction sector is still riding the
unification wave and accounts for two-thirds of group profits, it becomes
easy to understand RMC's attractions.
The problem is that like most building material stocks, RMC's shares already
anticipate the good news. RMC's ability to deliver on its latent promise
should prove more certain than most. But the spread of its operations may
ensure its profits rebound is slower than that on offer elsewhere.
Shareholders will be amply rewarded if RMC really can achieve the 25 per
cent target return on its Pounds 500m investment in east Germany. But that
will take time and there is a threat that the slackening of demand in
western Germany and cheap imports from eastern Europe may yet make life
trickier in the meantime.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940414

