FT943-12744

FT  23 JUL 94 / Economic Watch: French recovery accelerating


   By ALICE RAWSTHORN, AFX and AP


   PARIS, WIESBADEN, BEIJING


Further evidence emerged yesterday of an acceleration in France's economic
recovery with a 2.2 per cent increase in manufacturing output in May
compared with April and of a 23.1 per cent increase in the number of housing
starts in the first half of 1994 against the same period of 1993. Mr Edmond
Alphandery, economy minister, recently forecast 1 per cent growth for the
second quarter of 1994, against 0.5 per cent for the first quarter, and
predicted that France would achieve 2 per cent growth in 1994 rather than
the original official forecast of 1.4 per cent. The 2.2 per cent increase in
May's manufacturing output contributed to an overall 0.3 per cent rise in
industrial production during the month, according to Insee, the state
statistics institute. Meanwhile, the 23.1 per cent rise in first half
housing starts, to a total of 153,600, according to the Housing Ministry,
boded well for the construction and property sectors, both been badly
affected by the recession.
Germany recorded a current account deficit of DM6.1bn (Pounds 2.5bn) in May,
wider than the revised DM1.1bn deficit in April, the Federal Statistics
Office said. April's deficit was originally estimated at DM1.8bn. Germany's
trade surplus contracted to DM5bn in May, from a revised surplus of DM6.7bn
in April and DM5bn a year earlier. In the five months to May, the current
account deficit was DM15.9bn, compared with DM14.2bn a year earlier, and a
trade surplus of DM29bn (DM15.7bn).
China's foreign exchange reserves rose by Dollars 1.7bn in 1993 to Dollars
21.2bn, the official China Daily reported. Reserve assets grew by Dollars
1.7bn in 1993, the report said, citing figures from the State Administration
of Exchange Control.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940723

