FT944-6017

FT  01 DEC 94 / World Trade News: Hualon grants to be challenged


   By GUY DE JONQUIERES, Business Editor


European textile and clothing manufacturers yesterday launched a challenge
in the European Court to a Pounds 61m (Dollars 95m) UK government grant made
to Hualon, one of Taiwan's biggest industrial groups, to build a textiles
plant in Northern Ireland.
The case alleges that the European Commission broke its own rules by
approving the aid earlier this year. European manufacturers argue the Pounds
157m plant will add to capacity and threaten jobs in an already over
supplied sector.
The Northern Ireland Industrial Development Board, which is responsible for
the project, said last night that it could not comment until the court had
formed a view on the case. Hualon was unavailable for comment at its
headquarters in Taipei. Hualon has recently reaffirmed its commitment to the
proposed plant, which it says will create 1,800 jobs in Belfast. However,
the filing of the case raises further uncertainties about the project.
The start of the project has already been delayed several months to allow
time for appeals to the Commission's decision. It is unclear whether Hualon
will wish to proceed until the court rules, which is not expected for at
least 18 months. The IDB said yesterday building work on the proposed plant
had yet to begin, and it had disbursed none of the grant to Hualon. The
European Court case has been brought by Aiuffas, an organisation of European
filament weaving companies, and the Apparel, Knitting and Textiles Alliance,
the lobbying arm of the British Textiles and Apparel Confederation.

The Financial Times


London Page 7

941201

