FT942-15878

FT  13 APR 94 / Observer: Hark to Angell


Wayne Angell, a 63-year-old farmer and academic from Meade County, Kansas,
is hardly the most obvious choice for Bear Stearns as its senior economist,
even if he has eight years' experience as a Federal Reserve governor. Wall
Street economists are, like it or not, first and foremost salesmen  -
relatively youthful ones at that. Nor do Bear Stearns' gathering strengths
in emerging markets exactly cry out for an agricultural egghead.
Despite his dour mien, one of the slightly surprising things about Angell,
however, is his apparent love of the limelight and his not inconsiderable
talent for self-promotion. He is, moreover, supremely confident in his
wackily hawkish views about using commodity prices to target monetary
policy.
He should fit in. 'Larry (Kudlow, his predecessor at Bear Stearns) was
watching what I was doing so carefully that he was kind of my marketing
agent,' Angell observes. Having survived on the Fed's annual pittance of
Dollars 123,100, his landing at one of the best payers on the Street makes
sound financial sense of course.
And at least this looks like a real job  - contrast the grand but
nebulous-sounding involvement of former New York Fed president Gerry
Corrigan in 'special projects' at Goldman Sachs. It also sounds a good deal
more serious an occupation than that of former Fed vice-chairman Manley
Johnson who peddles all that insider stuff from his perch at Washington
DC-based consultants Smick Johnson.

The Financial Times


London Page 25

940413

