FT942-12527

FT  29 APR 94 / Worry on council election turnout dismissed


   By JOHN AUTHERS


Turnout in council elections is increasing in spite of the general belief
that the public is losing confidence in local government, research published
today shows.
Public attitudes towards local government are in fact no less respectful
than they are to central government, and there is general satisfaction with
local government structures.
The newly formed Commission for Local Democracy, an all-party think-tank
chaired by Mr Simon Jenkins, former editor of The Times, also found that
there was no consistent pool of 'non-voters', as some commentators had
claimed.
Research by Mr Michael Thrasher and Mr Colin Rallings of Plymouth University
suggested that the creation of local government 'one-party states' had not
had a negative impact on turnout, and non-voters in a particular election
frequently used their vote in another year. Council tenants, however, were
more likely to vote than owner-occupiers.
The research shows that the rise in turnout is made more significant by
registration officers' increased efficiency in compiling electoral
registers.
Councils where residents regularly turn out to vote in high numbers include
Rossendale in Lancashire, Richmond upon Thames and Stockport, but Newham,
and Barking and Dagenham in east London - both of which hold parliamentary
by-elections later this year - have consistently low turnout. Wigan,
Sandwell in West Midlands, Stoke-on-Trent and Hull also have low turnouts.
One concern raised by the commission was that among councillors, women,
younger adults and ethnic minorities were significantly under-represented.
Community Identity and Participation in Local Democracy, Commission for
Local Democracy, Glen House, 200/208 Tottenham Court Road, London W1P 9LA.
Pounds 4.95.

The Financial Times


London Page 9

940429

