FT943-13313

FT  20 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Germany


At last Germany's money supply seems to be coming right. The annualised
increase slipped to 11.3 per cent in June, still well above the target
ceiling of 6.5 per cent but a marked improvement on May's 13.4 per cent.
Particularly encouraging is the way in which capital formation is finally
expanding as investors move further out along the yield curve. At DM12.3bn,
the growth in June was nearly twice that of the same month last year. The
bond market's remarkable recovery this month is reason to hope that this
trend should continue. That will limit future money supply growth even if
the rapid expansion in the early months of the year virtually guarantees
that the 1994 target will be exceeded. Happily the improvement has come just
in time to save the Bundesbank from too much embarrassment when its council
meets to review the target tomorrow. There will be no particular pressure to
revise the target or recast monetary policy. But that does not mean the
Bundesbank will now automatically rush to cut official interest rates. The
task of building on the improvement is a delicate one.
With a whiff of recovery in the air, there is less urgency about interest
rate cuts. Though inflation is likely to fall below 3 per cent this month,
it is still well above the level which the Bundesbank regards as acceptable.
Above all, hasty interest rate cuts while the money supply remains so far
outside its target could undermine the bond market all over again. That
would put an end to the capital formation which is now having such a
beneficial impact.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940720

