FT942-12203

FT  30 APR 94 / The Lex Column: UK equities


Suddenly corporate finance business seems to be picking up. It is not just
the Enterprise bid for Lasmo. This week has seem a spate of rights issues to
finance acquisitions from Williams, Airtours and Compass, to name but three.
The prospect of more activity to offset slower trading income has perked up
the merchant banks: SG Warburg rose 3 per cent this week, Schroders 6 per
cent. Normally it might be expected to liven up the market as a whole. This
time, things look slightly different.
There is not much sign of bank-financed bids which bring cash into the
market. Enterprise's offer for Lasmo is an all paper deal with a warrant
element, which effectively means Lasmo's holders are themselves being
invited to put up cash for the privilege of a change in ownership. The
rights issues have usually been designed to fund trade purchases outside the
market.
Perhaps companies no longer regard such assets as expensive, which means
equity market valuations ought to be reasonable too. A more likely
explanation for the sudden burst of rights activity is that companies do not
believe capital will become much cheaper. That would make it largely
opportunistic. This downbeat view is reinforced by the latest Confederation
of British Industry survey, which showed business reluctant to invest in
increasing capacity and therefore volume. A predilection for bolt-on
acquisitions suggests companies prefer to seek growth instead by buying
market share. That does not bode well - either for the recovery or for the
equity market.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940430

