FT942-15617

FT  14 APR 94 / The Lex Column: UK economy


There was never any prize in guessing who argued for an interest rate cut at
February's meeting between the chancellor and the governor of the Bank of
England. What is surprising is the candour with which the disagreement is
laid bare in the newly published minutes of the meeting. The reminder that
the authorities were not speaking with one voice sent a brief frisson
through the exchange market yesterday afternoon. Presumably fear of
publicity means there will be fewer such disagreements in future.
The Bank of England's hand ought thus to have been strengthened. Its
authority has already been increased through its quarterly inflation report
and, to a lesser degree, by its freedom to decide on the timing of rate
changes. Having disagreed with the Bank on rates in February, it would be
harder for the chancellor to do so again in the summer. Similarly, it will
be more difficult for him to resist pressure from the Bank for higher
interest rates as the cycle turns.
But it would be rash to exaggerate the impact in practice. The long time lag
between the meetings and publication of the minutes means the markets, which
are quite good at detecting politically-inspired rate changes anyway, will
usually have moved on by the time all is revealed. Final authority for
policy still rests with the chancellor. Mr Clarke pushed through a rate cut
in February, albeit smaller than he originally wanted. Doubtless he would do
so again if the political advantages outweighed the costs.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940414

