FT941-3439

FT  16 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Wolseley builds higher


Wolseley has a habit of exceeding market expectations. Yesterday's 8 per
cent rise in the shares following the release of half-year figures is a case
in point. The company's reticence is partly the cause. More segmental
information and an interim cash flow statement, for example, might help
investors form a clearer view of what the future holds. The Stock Exchange's
new disclosure guidelines are certainly no justification for clamming up.
While the going is good shareholders will doubtless forgive, but such
shyness cuts both ways. Wolseley's creditable history of outperformance is
punctuated by some uncomfortably sharp corrections.
Yesterday's interim statement gives no immediate cause for concern. True,
Wolseley will not enjoy the conditions of the 1980s unless the housing
market is stoked into another frenzy. With inflation low, neither can it
count on stock profits to boost margins. But the 12 per cent increase in UK
sales shows how sensitive Wolseley's distribution business is to even a
modest upturn in building activity. Since profits from European distribution
rose by more than 50 per cent - with presumably little cheer coming from
France - the operational gearing is clear.
The acquisition of Brossette in France two years ago might also provide the
foundation for a wider European distribution network. If Wolseley can avoid
tripping on the acquisition trail there should be growth as well as recovery
to come. While the recent run-up in the shares argues for caution, that
prospect leaves long-term holders with little incentive to sell.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940316

