FT942-15730

FT  14 APR 94 / World Trade News: US fears on food safety controls


   By NANCY DUNNE


   WASHINGTON


US consumer and environmental organisations are recommending a moratorium on
challenges against food safety, health and environmental measures brought
under rules to be inherited from Gatt by its planned successor, the World
Trade Organisation.
In 'Trading Away US Food Safety', Mr Ralph Nader's Public Citizen and the
Environmental Working Group charged that rules agreed in the Uruguay Round
jeopardised key federal and state standards. They want a three-year
moratorium to give a trade and environment committee the chance to rewrite
the new rules and to 'democratise' the new Gatt dispute settlement
procedure.
US consumer and environmental groups have long warned that, under the
Uruguay Round global trade pact, many US standards would be subject to
challenge. In response, trade negotiators tightened language in the text of
the Sanitary and Phytosanitary and Technical Barriers section of the new
trade pact and now insist that they have safeguarded any rules which are
scientifically based.
However, Mr Nader says the new pact could undermine bans on hormone treated
beef, restrictions on food irradiation, meat and poultry inspection, and
nutritional labelling on rules. 'Nothing is more likely to pull down our
present US consumer and environmental protections and derail future advances
than the proposed trade deal,' he said.
The trade pact uses the standards of the Rome-based Codex Alimentarius
Commission (Codex), a group strongly influenced by the chemical and food
industries, as the model for legitimate standards-setting when relevant
scientific evidence is insufficient. Many US standards are stronger that
Codex standards.

The Financial Times


London Page 5

940414

