FT942-12672

FT  28 APR 94 / UK Company News: Trinity Holdings up 50% to Pounds 10.6m -
UK markets for core business of buses and refuse vehicles show further
expansion


   By PAUL TAYLOR


Trinity Holdings, the UK's leading specialist vehicle manufacturer,
yesterday reported a 50 per cent increase in pre-tax profits in its first
full year as a publicly quoted company.
Pre-tax profits at the group increased to Pounds 10.6m in the 12 months to
January 31, against Pounds 7.08m last time. Turnover increased by 24 per
cent to Pounds 136m (Pounds 109.9m) with all subsidiaries reporting growth
in sales, particularly exports, which overall rose 70 per cent to Pounds
59m.
Earnings per share increased by 29 per cent to 13.8p (10.7p) and a 4.2p
final dividend is recommended, making a total of 6.2p (1.5p) for the year.
The shares closed 18p higher at 308p.
Commenting on the results, Mr Geoff Hollyhead, chairman, said, 'The UK
markets for our core business of buses and refuse vehicles showed growth for
the second consecutive year.' But although group vehicle output rose from
2,458 to 3,439 units, the year-end order book level was still ahead of the
previous year.
At the trading level margins were broadly in line with the previous year,
but volume growth lifted operating profits to Pounds 10.6m (Pounds 8.5m).
Dennis Specialist Vehicles, the market leader in both the bus and fire
markets, and Dennis Eagle, which manufactures refuse chassis, both saw sales
grow in response to the overall market recovery and new product launches.
Reliance Mercury Vehicles' markets are beginning to improve. Mr Hollyhead
said trading in the first quarter of the current year was 'substantially
ahead'.
COMMENT
The sharp dividend increase announced yesterday underlines the confidence
Trinity's management has in the group's future performance. Domestic sales
should continue to benefit from the general market recovery as well as
special factors such as the second round of tendering for refuse collection
services and the progressive bus replacement policies of private sector
operators. Overseas, meanwhile, the group's Malaysian bus manufacturing
joint venture is going ahead despite recent problems between the two
countries and should provide an important entry into the fast-growing Asian
market. Profits of about Pounds 12.5m look possible this year producing
earnings of 16.3p. The shares are trading on a well deserved prospective p/e
of 18.8.

The Financial Times


London Page 29

940428

