FT944-2899

FT  15 DEC 94 / International Company News: Rhone-Poulenc unit in cash call


   By PATRICK MCCURRY


   SAO PAULO


Rhodia-Ster, a Brazilian joint venture controlled by the French chemicals
group Rhone-Poulenc, is set to raise between Dollars 135m and Dollars 159m
in a global initial public offering. It will be the first time in at least
15 years that a foreign company has floated part of a Brazilian subsidiary.
The company, which makes polyester-based products such as flexible packaging
and returnable bottles, is offering 117.7m voting shares - 23 per cent of
its capital - in three equal parts to the US, European and Brazilian
markets.
Mr Edson Vaz Musa, chairman of Rhone-Poulenc's Brazilian subsidiary Rhodia,
said the proceeds would largely be used to pay for Rhodia's capitalisation
of Rhodia-Ster, formed in May with Sinasa, a Brazilian chemicals group.
Sinasa's Celbras subsidiary ran up debts of around Dollars 200m to pay for
expansion of its polyester resins and returnable bottles production.
The pricing was being finalised in Paris yesterday by the company and global
co-ordinator, Paribas Capital Markets.
The global depositary shares will be listed on the US Portal system and the
Luxembourg stock exchange. Shares will also be listed on the Brazilian stock
market.
The offering was due to be launched at least two months ago, but was delayed
after a judgment by the Brazilian monopolies commission, which insisted on
changes to the joint venture to prevent a monopoly in polyester and acrylic
fibres.
Rhodia-Ster then agreed to sell off part of its polyester and acrylic
business, but this will not significantly affect the company's growth
prospects.
The company, which has planned investments of Dollars 435m to the end of the
decade, says polyester demand is growing by 9.4 per cent a year in Latin
America.
Paribas Capital Markets said the issue had been oversubscribed in spite of
difficult market conditions.

The Financial Times


London Page 35

941215

