FT944-2884

FT  15 DEC 94 / International Company News: Life insurer looks to raise at
least ADollars 500m


   By NIKKI TAIT


National Mutual, the second largest life insurer in Australia, said
yesterday that ADollars 500m (USDollars 387.5m) was the minimum 'meaningful'
amount of new capital which the group would be looking to raise either via a
public offering or the sale of a tranche of equity to a 'strategic'
investor.
Mr Geoff Tomlinson, managing director, said the mutual insurer was
entertaining both options and also considering a combination of the two.
However, the insurer was unclear about the timing of any capital raising,
suggesting only that it might occur in 1995 or 1996.
The comments came as National Mutual reported a sharp fall in pre-tax
earnings for the year to end-September, to ADollars 584m, compared with
ADollars 1.71bn previously. Premium income was higher at ADollars 2.7bn from
ADollars 2.56bn, but the total investment result fell to ADollars 851m from
ADollars 2.18bn, leaving total inflow at ADollars 3.55bn against ADollars
4.74bn.
The total investment result includes interest income, which was said to be
about ADollars 880m, and both realised and unrealised capital gains, which
showed an overall ADollars 30m loss.
National Mutual declined to specify the unrealised portion, but said
investment conditions had been difficult because of unfavourable bond market
conditions and a sluggish property market. The lower investment gains helped
reduce the tax charge to ADollars 30m from ADollars 279m. Earnings credited
to policyholders fell to ADollars 348m from ADollars 1.16bn. Group profit
after charges was ADollars 206m, compared with ADollars 227m.

The Financial Times


London Page 36

941215

