FT941-4105

FT  12 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Grumman


The sharks are circling closer in the US defence business. Despite a 40 per
cent fall in military hardware spending from the peak six years ago, most
consolidation deals in the US industry have been reasonably friendly asset
swaps. Now the possibilities for partnerships are narrowing, and the
potential losers are threatening to turn nasty - hence the struggle for
control of Grumman between Martin Marietta and Northrop.
In aircraft, Grumman has seen production of its A-6 and F-14 carrier-based
bombers and interceptors ended. Northrop is also suffering from cuts in the
B-2 stealth bomber programme. Yet both companies have continuing
aero-structures work, Grumman with the E2-C early-warning aircraft and F-14
refurbishment, Northrop with the F-18 fighter and the Boeing 747. There is
thus logic in consolidating the businesses. Martin Marietta also has a
claim, however. Its strong connections to the US army and its electronics
and space surveillance expertise would complement Grumman's electronics
manufacturing, spy-plane technology and naval links.
The risk is that in an effort to retain position, both Martin and Northrop
may overpay for Grumman. With manufacturing sites spread widely around the
US, rationalisation costs will be heavy for either bidder. There is also the
outside chance of competition difficulties with the Federal Trade
Commission. President Clinton has said there will be no further cuts in
military budgets, but there is no guarantee a leaner industry will leave
shareholders with much to cheer about.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940312

