FT943-12649

FT  23 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Stores


UK retailers like to believe they are the best in the world. The market
clearly does not think the same. The mere threat of the US DIY chain, Home
Depot, opening stores in the UK has caused something of a panic this week.
It is easy to understand why. In its short history, Home Depot has been a
highly aggressive operator. Its execution of everyday low pricing leaves UK
imitators, such as B&Q, trailing in its wake. As yet, the threat appears
remote; Home Depot will not quickly open stores across the country, but the
UK DIY market is precariously balanced.
If it did establish itself, Home Depot would throw grit into the main engine
of Kingfisher's growth. B&Q accounts for about a quarter of its profits.
Ladbroke's Texas chain could also be badly squeezed. But Boots and W H
Smith, which together run the lacklustre Do It All chain, would appear to
have the biggest problem. There is a need for further rationalisation in the
mature industry even without Home Depot. There must be a suspicion that J.
Sainsbury, which runs the small but perfectly-formed Homebase chain, may
eventually be tempted to have a go.
Overseas entrants threaten to step up the competition in many other UK
retail sectors, providing another reason to believe that some domestic
retailers will struggle to grow. With consumer spending muted and inflation
low, that makes it all the harder to understand why so many stores groups
trade on the same multiples as they did back in their glory days.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940723

