FT944-11054

FT  08 NOV 94 / The Lex Column: Churning TeleWest


Just as TeleWest is trying to enthuse investors about its impending Pounds
1.6bn-Pounds 1.9bn flotation, an astonishingly high proportion of its
customers are switching off. The churn rate - the number of cable television
customers who disconnected as a proportion of Tele-West's total customer
base - was 48.5 per cent during the year to end-September. Some of this is
because of a give-away promotion during the spring: nearly 90 per cent of
those who took the free offer cancelled their subscriptions when the bills
started rolling in.
The high churn rate raises questions about TeleWest's indicative valuation.
Implicit in the valuation is the assumption that the level of take-up for
cable television will jump from 21 per cent to 47 per cent. But if customers
are so quick to switch off, one wonders whether TeleWest can achieve such
penetration.
Another question is whether the implicit 'terminal value' - how much
TeleWest will be worth in 10 years - is reasonable. Kleinwort Benson, joint
global co-ordinator, calculates the terminal value at 10 times operating
cash flow. When depreciation, interest and tax are taken into account, the
more conventional earnings multiple is something over 20, which looks pricey
for what should then be a fairly mature business.
There is, of course, a positive side to the TeleWest story: its revenue from
telephone services is booming; further potential is provided by multimedia
services which are only a twinkle in its eye; and other UK cable operators
recently floated in the US have performed well. But, with TeleWest not due
to report a profit until 1998, the risks of investing look high.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

941108

