FT941-12991

FT  27 JAN 94 / International Company News: Rights issue to go ahead at
Sonae group


   By PETER WISE


   LISBON


A bitter legal battle that for more than a year blocked a rights issue by
Sonae Investimentos, the holding company for Portugal's largest
privately-held industrial and distribution conglomerate, has been settled by
an out-of-court agreement between minority and majority shareholders.
A minority group composed of heirs of the founder of the Sonae group secured
a court injunction ordering the suspension of the Es15bn (Dollars 86m)
rights issue only minutes before the subscription period was due to end on
December 31, 1992.
Since then majority shareholders led by Mr Belmiro de Azevedo, president of
the Sonae group, have been fighting for permission to proceed with the
issue, which would raise the share capital of Sonae Investimentos from
Es25bn to Es40bn.
Stock markets analysts say the capital increase is badly needed to reduce a
heavy accumulated debt and help meet the cost of major investments.
The minority shareholders argued that the issue was unnecessary. But their
underlying reason for opposing it was reportedly that they lacked sufficient
funds to participate fully in the capital increase and feared a dilution of
their holding.
Details of the agreement between the two groups of shareholders have not
been revealed. But immediately following the accord, the minority group sold
4 per cent of its holding to institutional investors in the majority group
for Es3bn.
The minority group will be able to use the cash raised to reconstitute their
position through the capital increase. Shares in the rights issue will sell
at the December 1992 price of Es1,000 each and will be available only to
shareholders at that time. Shares in Sonae Investimentos were trading at
Es3,350 yesterday. The date for the rights issue now depends on a decision
by the Lisbon Stock Exchange Commission.

The Financial Times


London Page 31

940127

