FT942-12572

FT  29 APR 94 / Warsaw bows to union demand


   By CHRISTOPHER BOBINSKI


   WARSAW


Mr Grzegorz Kolodko, Poland's new finance minister, moved yesterday to end a
confrontation between the Solidarity union and the government over wage
controls in state industries. He said the controls, which the union is
fighting to abolish, were not essential. Mr Kolodko, 45, an economist whose
nomination was approved yesterday by President Lech Walesa, said the
government would soon prepare measures to eliminate the risk that inflation
would be fuelled by dropping the controls. The statement came after Mr
Walesa had expressed doubts about the usefulness of the controls.
Solidarity said token stoppages yesterday had 'finally brought the union's
demands to the fore'. The union would continue to insist that the government
implement a system of collective wage bargaining to replace the wage
controls. Mr Wieslaw Kaczmarek, privatisation minister, said his ministry
would speed up 'commercialisation' of state companies, which would
streamline management and give the government greater control over wage
decisions.
Mr Kolodko is a specialist on inflation who was in the past critical of
Poland's shock therapy reform programme. But lately he has argued for
stringent monetary controls and said that as finance minister he would
concentrate on reducing the budget deficit and reforming the welfare system.
He advocates selling bonds which would be exchangable for state property as
a way of reducing the national debt. Mr Kolodko concedes that, in the light
of Poland's 16 per cent unemployment, the 30 per cent a year inflation rate
can only be reduced gradually.

The Financial Times


London Page 2

940429

