FT943-12852

FT  22 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Wellcome's cool reception


Wellcome might have hoped that its results would be better received if it
produced more of them. Unfortunately, its second set of interim results only
confused the market. Some impressive sales figures for Zovirax were
overshadowed by the accounting complexities and Pounds 52m of exceptional
reorganisation costs. Wellcome's shares again retreated on the familiar
litany of worries about the expiry of Zovirax's patent; the growing threat
of the rival drug, Famvir; and the lack of a strong drugs pipeline to
maintain the sales momentum.
None of these concerns can be quickly dispelled. But perhaps the more
important issue confronting Wellcome will be how successfully it can develop
an OTC version of Zovirax. The tie-up with Warner-Lambert gives Wellcome the
wherewithal to do the job. But it is still too early to tell for sure. In
the meantime, Wellcome's shares will be kept warm by their yield. Wellcome's
Pounds 600m cash pile and its commitment to run down dividend cover from 2.7
times also hold an appeal. If Wellcome eventually fails to build a strong
OTC Zovirax franchise or is not lucky in developing newer products, then the
logic for merger will grow inescapable. There may be some sense in deepening
the association with Warner-Lambert. But it would be extraordinary if other
cash-rich drugs groups did not cast an envious eye over Wellcome given its
grip on the anti-viral field. That suggests there may be greater long term
value in Wellcome than the market is currently prepared to recognise. How
quickly that potential can be released - and who will do so - will remain
unclear for some time to come.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940722

