FT942-12445

FT  29 APR 94 / The Lex Column: TeleWest


Woody Allen once described a stockbroker as someone who invested your money
until it had all gone. Cable television companies promise to do much the
same. The streetwise investor should recoil in horror at any company which
starts pontificating about the definition of profit on being asked when it
will first make one. TeleWest, which is seeking some Pounds 300m from a
flotation, conjures up any number of theoretical answers.
The proposition is that cable companies can be given a stock market worth on
the basis of the net present value of future cash flows. Similar theories
have been used to justify the flotations of other enterprises, such as
biotechnology stocks, Eurotunnel and Vodafone. It is perhaps in the nature
of such investments that immense initial scepticism is followed by frantic
buying at the first whiff of profit.
UK cable companies could prove especially attractive given their rare
ability to combine both telephone and television services. The costs of
building networks are substantially higher than in the US but then so are
the possible revenue streams. There are big and largely unquantifiable
risks. If BT were ever unchained, it could wreck the industry almost
overnight. But TeleWest, at least, may be conservatively valued to discount
most risks and attract supporters. Its giant US parents hardly need the
cash. Their chief consideration seems political. A quoted UK company should
have more influence in the regulatory debate than distant US corporations.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940429

