FT942-12448

FT  29 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Big boys' game


Enterprise Oil has a long way to go before convincing the market that its
bid for Lasmo makes sense. None of the reasons produced yesterday by Mr
Graham Hearne, Enterprise's chairman, was persuasive. He argued that
Enterprise's stronger balance sheet would enable it to accelerate the
exploitation of Lasmo's assets but could not give a single example of an
asset which should be developed more quickly. He said Lasmo's management
would not be able to deliver shareholder value but could not spell out what
the company's management deficiencies were. Finally, he argued it was
necessary to be one of the 'big boys' to flourish in the world oil industry
but was vague when pressed to elaborate on what opportunities would be
missed by two smaller groups.
It is more difficult to quibble with the bid price. Enterprise seems to be
neither underpaying nor overpaying for Lasmo's assets, though the valuation
depends heavily on oil price expectations. The snag is that Lasmo
shareholders are unlikely to sell at the offer price, which was worth just
over 140p last night, following the slide in Enterprise's share price. But
Enterprise shareholders would not benefit if Mr Hearne was then tempted to
increase the bid and so overpaid for his rival.
Enterprise will not escape from this bind unless it can produce better
arguments showing there is value in putting the two companies together. In
their absence, shareholders will conclude that Mr Hearne has been swept away
by his ambition to sit at the same table as the likes of BP and Mobil. They
would then see no point in swapping shares in two smaller groups for a stake
in a big boy.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940429

