FT942-15871

FT  13 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Tesco


There is an old retailing saw that shopkeepers must be good listeners.
Unfortunately, Tesco appeared to lose its hearing a few years ago. There
are, however, some encouraging signs that its chastened management is now
proving more attentive. Same store sales rose 3.3 per cent last year as
Tesco sharpened its prices and broadened its product range. Its value lines
have proved an effective counter to the discount threat. And Tesco is
developing a promising new type of high street metro store that will
doubtless win the approval of the evergreen environment secretary.
Against that background, the recent bounce in Tesco's shares relative to the
sector is understandable. Investors, expecting the very worst when industry
margins were tumbling last year, are relieved that the outcome is only poor.
Tesco's promise of turning cash positive in 1995 and raising dividends
thereafter adds to its appeal.
Little of this allays the worries about the industry's future. The recent
recovery of gross margins may suggest the grocery chains are now achieving a
more controlled decline than a headlong fall. But Tesco remains on a
fearsome treadmill, spending Pounds 779m on capital expenditure last year to
produce minimal earnings growth. Superstore capacity is still being added at
an eye-popping rate, discounters are proliferating, and price inflation is
forecast to fall to just 1 per cent this year. Tesco may be running faster
than its rivals, but the sector is still limping.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940413

