FT941-5723

FT  04 MAR 94 / International Company News: Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels
profits climb 12%


   By LOUISE LUCAS


   HONG KONG


Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, the hotels and property company controlled by
the Kadoorie family, yesterday reported a 12 per cent rise in earnings to
HKDollars 417m (USDollars 54m) for the year to December 31 against HKDollars
372m in 1992. Profits were boosted by rocketing rental income from the
Repulse Bay and other developments and sharply reduced interest rate costs.
The company booked a further HKDollars 118m through the sale of 14.3m shares
in Harbour Centre Development, which owns and operates hotels in Hong Kong
and Texas. Since the year end, Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels has sold a
further 18m shares on the open market, in line with plans to concentrate on
core activities.
The group decided to dispose of its 10.7 per cent stake in Harbour Centre -
held since June 1968 - after a privatisation bid by Wharf Holdings, the
majority shareholder, failed last year. This year the disposal is expected
to reap around HKDollars 170m for Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels.
Earnings per share rose to 39 HK cents compared with 36 cents in 1992,
slightly above the market consensus, although analysts reckoned a more
generous dividend might have been forthcoming, especially in light of the
Dollars 118m extraordinary gain. The final dividend was 14 cents, giving a
total for the year of 20 cents against 18 cents in 1992.
Operating profit on the hotels side last year, down 8 per cent at HKDollars
245m, was hit by extension work to The Peninsula in Hong Kong, scheduled for
completion in June. However, increased rental incomes helped propel
operating profits on residential and commercial activities 16 per cent ahead
to HKDollars 248m.
The outlook for the group, which owns the colony's most prestigious hotel -
The Peninsula in Kowloon - and the long-running Peak Tram, is deemed to be
good on both the hotel and property fronts. The hotel sector generally is
expected to enjoy better times due to a reduction in room supply (several
hotels have been sold recently, and most of these are likely to re-emerge as
commercial blocks) and a rise in room tariffs.

The Financial Times


London Page 30

940304

