FT942-15984

FT  13 APR 94 / Economic Watch: More Danes out of work


Denmark's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate reached a record 12.6 per
cent in February, compared with 12.5 per cent the month before and 11.9 per
cent in February last year, according to the official statistical office.
Unemployment has been forecast to fall this year as a result of a government
job creation programme and recovery in the economy. Labour market reform has
given full-time workers paid leave so that the unemployed can fill their
posts for a short period. The statistical office attributed the unemployment
rise to delays in implementing other 'workfare' and job training programmes.
These problems were blamed by Mr Mogens Lykketoft, finance minister, for
increasing unemployment by about 20,000. Hilary Barnes, Copenhagen
France's consumer price index rose a provisional 0.2 per cent in March from
the previous month and advanced 1.5 per cent year-on-year, the national
statistics institute Insee reported yesterday. Since the beginning of the
year, the index has risen by 0.6 per cent, according to Insee.
Producer prices in the Netherlands rose 0.3 per cent in February from the
previous month but fell by 0.7 per cent from a year earlier, the central
statistics bureau said yesterday. In January the index was up 0.2 per cent
on the previous month, and 0.8 per cent lower than a year earlier. The
Swedish debt office reported yesterday that the public sector borrowing
requirement last month was SKr18.5bn (Pounds 1.59bn). It also estimated a
borrowing requirement of SKr5.9bn for April.

The Financial Times


London Page 3

940413

