FT942-16129

FT  12 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Burmah's pace quickens


There is a certain amount of lubrication in Burmah Castrol's annual figures.
Without currency movements and disposals last year's Pounds 231m operating
profit would have shown only a small gain. Without the enhanced scrip
dividend at the interim stage the tax rate would have been 4 percentage
points higher. That benefit will fall this year and Burmah will no longer be
releasing Pounds 7m in provisions on its liquid natural gas transportation
business. In earnings terms it will have to run hard to stand still,
especially given the dilutive effect of two enhanced scrip dividends in a
row. Yet the unexciting outlook for stated earnings masks an improving
underlying position.
Burmah's automotive lubricant business has proved resilient in the recession
and Syntec, its high margin synthetic oil, will move into profit this year.
More important, the chemical businesses should soon start to recover with
the cycle. Earnings should be growing strongly by 1995, which makes a
historic price-earnings ratio of 15 undemanding.
Yet Burmah still has to decide how to use the benefits. The operational
gearing inherent in its chemicals business means it could start to generate
more cash than it is traditionally used to. If it manages to sell peripheral
businesses as well, Burmah could be enjoying a surplus of cash. Although
gearing is nearly 60 per cent, there is no pressing reason to pay down debt
when interest cover is over six times. One possibility might be another
large acquisition, though Foseco has not yet proved a convincing
diversification. It might make more sense to return money to shareholders,
especially if the new foreign income dividends reduce the tax problems in
doing so.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940412

