FT942-14530

FT  20 APR 94 / Call for Teeside industrial strategy


   By CHRIS TIGHE


Teesside has the potential to continue developing as a significant European
manufacturing base into the next century, but to do so it needs a
co-ordinated, focused strategy, the Confederation of British Industry said
yesterday.
A CBI report, Teesside at the Crossroads, argues that the decline of mature
industries should be seen as a natural consequence of production life
cycles.
It acknowledges that the decline of large industries has created feelings of
betrayal, with the community often seen as the victim of big business. But
it says the area has a number of fundamental strengths, linked to its
manufacturing and engineering base, on which it can build economic success
and jobs.
The report says the public and private sectors, economic development
agencies and local people must collaborate to develop a shared vision and a
manufacturing strategy. In this way, Teesside can support and improve its
best industries and identify potential growth areas, concentrating on
development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The report is by CBI Teesside chairman Mr Arthur Dicken, engineering manager
of ICI's Teesside operations, and Mr Julian Kenyon, CBI assistant northern
region director. It comes against a background of heavy job cuts in recent
years by Cleveland's two dominant employers, ICI and British Steel. Together
with Merseyside, Cleveland's unemployment is the highest county rate in
mainland Britain.
The CBI report cites as Teesside strengths, energy supply and experience in
oil, gas and nuclear power, fresh water supplies, a strong engineering and
process industry base, strong local technical training and excellent
infrastructure.
Teesside at the Crossroads, CBI northern region, 15 Grey St, Newcastle NE1
6EE. Free.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

940420

