FT942-14480

FT  20 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Just kidding


There are red faces at Kidder Peabody over its phantom Dollars 350m profits.
Though the US investment house does not appear to have lost money as a
result of the scam, the fake earnings helped mask a poor performance in the
business as a whole. Kidder is now in the unhappy position of having to
report first-quarter losses of roughly Dollars 140m. Top management has been
quick to blame its predicament on Mr Joseph Jett, the firm's former chief
bond trader who has now been fired. But it seems that Kidder's controls and
incentives were not best designed to minimise the risks of this sort of
scam.
Part of the problem is that top management did not question the wonderful
trading strategy that was generating such fabulous profits. Now that it has
done so, it has discovered it was based on exploiting a glitch in Kidder's
accounting system which allowed Mr Jett to book profits that did not exist.
The suspicion is that Mr Jett's colleagues, happy that his contribution was
helping turn around the overall business, were too willing to suspend
disbelief.
Kidder's remuneration system may also have played a part. Mr Jett's salary
and bonus - Dollars 9m last year - were closely tied to the profitability of
his unit and most of it was paid in cash. The trend in the industry is away
from cash bonuses and towards paying in shares that can only be cashed after
a period of years. The main motive is to deter stars from jumping ship to
rival firms. But Kidder's embarrassment should provide another motive. The
closer an individual's interests are aligned with those of his firm, the
less incentive that person has to book profits that are not sustainable in
the long run.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940420

