FT942-15365

FT  15 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Blue Circle


Blue Circle's results add further ballast to the argument that the company
took the wrong route in the late 1980s by diversifying into home products.
The vibrant profits growth in heavy building materials provides a marked
contrast to the lacklustre progress made in home products, where operating
margins are only half those attained elsewhere. The Pounds 11m burn mark
resulting from Blue Circle's failed diversification into incineration
equipment throws up a fresh embarrassment.
Not only has diversification dulled the group's recovery, it has also meant
the company has missed opportunities to expand its international cement
interests, slipping steadily down the global rankings over the past decade.
Global scale is certainly not an absolute prerequisite for success. Local
market dominance is perhaps a more critical determinant of profitability.
But the strong performance of Blue Circle's cement businesses in Chile and
Malaysia shows how it is actually rather good at finding fruitful expansion
avenues overseas.
The relatively new management can hardly be blamed for past mistakes.
Indeed, it now exhibits a commendable determination to make existing assets
work harder. Volume and price rises for cement in the US and the UK should
push profits strongly this year. The hope is that the cost-cutting efforts
in home products should bear fruit thereafter. Perhaps that would be the
moment to demerge the division altogether and refocus all efforts on doing
what Blue Circle does best.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940415

