FT941-17060

FT  06 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Hepworth


Trustees are much criticised for their passivity in defending investors, so
it is refreshing to see Law Debenture Trust taking the initiative to the
advantage of Hepworth's bondholders. While the company was entitled to force
conversion of its Pounds 100m convertible issue last month, the timing meant
bondholders stood to lose their final interest payment and understandably
felt hard done by. Thanks to a wrinkle in the covenants, though, Law
Debenture was able to convert on their behalf - after the interest payment
date. An unusual purchase facility arranged through Cazenove allowed
bondholders to buy back shares directly from the trustee yesterday rather
than taking their chances in the market.
If the episode signals a new mood of activism among trustees, so much the
better. Increased competition from insurance companies is certainly an
incentive for established trustees to sharpen their act. But it would be
better if similar sticky situations could be avoided in future. Covenants
which make bondholders' entitlements to interest more explicit in such
circumstances would be a good place to start. Ensuring that interest payment
dates fall several weeks before conversion dates might also help avoid
confusion.
Hepworth must have mixed feelings about the operation. The repurchase
facility ensured an orderly market yesterday even though 8 per cent of the
company's enlarged equity changed hands. Law Debenture's intervention will
have pleased shareholders but cost Pounds 3m additional interest. With
gearing falling from over 100 per cent to little more than 10 per cent now
the issue is safely converted, Hepworth can afford to pay that price.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940106

