FT942-12340

FT  29 APR 94 / FT Quarterly Review of Personal Finance (8): The unit trust
route


Investors who wish to leave the running of their gilt portfolio to a
professional fund manager have several unit trusts from which to choose. But
be warned - these are the funds that many investment advisers love to hate.
The gilt fund manager should be able to move swiftly in and out of various
areas of the gilt market in order to maximise the return - for example,
switching into short-dated issues if it looks as though gilt prices in that
area of the yield curve will rally, benefiting from expectations of an
interest rate cut.
Gilt funds aim to outperform the gilt market through skilful management,
providing investors with regular income payments - although these are likely
to vary in size according to how well or badly the fund has performed.
However, investors should be aware of two crucial points. First, unlike a
direct investment in a gilt, you do not have your investment redeemed at
par. If the gilt market takes a severe knock, your investment may do so too,
and your units may fall in value. Whereas a gilt will be redeemed at par on
reaching maturity, the recovery of your unit trust investment will depend on
the ability of the fund manager.
Second, you will need to read the small print of your unit trust literature
carefully to find out what the manager's strategy is. Some managers may aim
for such a high income that they can only achieve it at the expense of the
capital. So look for a fund that aims for a reasonable income level combined
with security of capital.
Finally, be aware that you will have to pay management and administration
fees.

The Financial Times


London Page IX

940429

