FT944-14476

FT  22 OCT 94 / The Lex Column: Sharing the pain


Equities have had a bad week. Yesterday's troubles stemmed from the
overnight slide in the dollar and Treasury bond weakness. Earlier in the
week, the culprit was faster-than-expected growth in retail sales. While
both factors are real enough, they need to be seen in context. Retail
volumes do, indeed, appear to be growing rapidly but prices are subdued.
There is little reason to think inflation is running out of control.
Furthermore, yesterday's gross domestic product figures suggest that the
economy is slowing down to the sort of rate that should keep inflationary
pressures at bay for some time.
The dollar's problems are harder to sweep aside. Not only is there a direct
impact on the earnings of companies with large US subsidiaries; the
accompanying rise in Treasury bond yields has had a knock-on effect on
gilts. With gilt yields rising, one would have to be extremely optimistic
about dividends to expect shares to remain unscathed. While dividends should
grow at about 10 per cent both this year and next, it is hard to argue that
such a pace can be kept up after that if inflation really is under control.
The best hopes for equities are therefore either that the dollar recovers or
that gilts break their link with Treasury bonds. At some point, one might
expect the UK to be rewarded for its fiscal and monetary correctness by a
further narrowing of the yield spread between gilts and Treasuries. But
sceptical investors will probably wish to wait at least until next month's
Budget to reassure themselves that the chancellor's virtue has staying
power.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

941022

