FT942-14477

FT  20 APR 94 / The Lex Column: London International


The story of London International Group is really one of two different
businesses. The photo-processing side, built up in the early 1980s when
condoms seemed to be going out of fashion, has brought it to the brink of
disaster. LIG's net assets will be more or less wiped out by the cost of
disposal. The condom and surgical gloves business is in theory now a growth
activity in a market in which LIG is a world leader. That represents value
which LIG and its advisers will surely be anxious to stress during the
looming restructuring.
The trouble is that LIG's condom business is not actually thriving at the
moment. Net operating margins slid below 3 per cent in the first half.
Italian pharmacists have been de-stocking as extra healthcare charges bite
and there have been other local difficulties in the US. On the most
optimistic assumptions, it will be the year after next before margins
recover to a more reasonable 15 per cent.
At the present level of sales, that would give operating profit of only
around Pounds 37.5m, less than the group has generated since 1989. The
multiple implicit in yesterday's closing price of 121p thus looks heroic.
Those anxious to look on the bright side might prefer to value the business
at twice sales given LIG's valuable condom brands. After adjustment for
debt, that would value the shares at over Pounds 2. But the price/earnings
multiple would then defy gravity, especially given the massive dilution
existing holders are likely to suffer in the restructuring.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940420

