FT941-3438

FT  16 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Williams Holdings


Slowly but surely Williams Holdings is digging itself out of the hole in
which it fell after its Racal bid failed. Full-year results show a rapid
advance of operating profit in the second half thanks in large measure to a
broader distribution base in the US. Cash generation is also improving with
Pounds 47m left over after capital spending, interest, tax and dividend
payments have been met. Just the same, in marking the shares up by a quarter
since late November, the market may have become carried away. The balance
sheet does not look strong enough to sustain much by way of cash
acquisitions. More paper might well meet resistance, especially since
dividend growth is likely to be pedestrian.
A significant part of the cash-flow improvement came from a squeeze on
working capital, continued restraint of capital spending, which is less than
half its peak in 1989, and a virtual end to spending of restructuring
provisions. Williams now needs to generate cash from its basic operations.
The presumption is that there will be a large beneficial effect from
increased volumes once recovery gets under way.
Yet Williams still does not seem to have much scope to raise prices. Higher
interest rates in the US and tax increases in the UK do not seem
particularly conducive to volume growth. There may be some years of dividend
restraint before Williams meets its target of two times cover. In the
meantime Hanson is on a higher yield and BTR seems likely to offer faster
earnings recovery.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940316

