FT943-13038

FT  21 JUL 94 / Lending beats City hopes


   By PETER NORMAN, Economics Editor


Bank and building society lending in Britain grew by an unexpectedly sharp,
seasonally adjusted Pounds 2.9bn last month, confounding City expectations
of a Pounds 1.3bn increase and well ahead of May's Pounds 1.5bn growth, the
Bank of England reported yesterday.
Last month's 0.5 per cent increase in so-called M4 lending compared with
May, brought the seasonally adjusted increase in bank and building society
lending to private-sector UK residents to Pounds 21.7bn in the year to the
end of June. Last month's lending was 3.5 per cent up on the level of June
last year.
The Bank said its provisional figures for lending were broadly consistent
with seasonally adjusted statistics from the British Bankers' Association,
published yesterday. These showed that total sterling lending to the private
sector by the nine biggest British banking groups rose Pounds 949m in June.
This increase, which was slightly below May's Pounds 1bn increase, but in
line with the average rise in the big banks' lending for the previous six
months, represented an annual growth rate of 4.5 per cent.
The association's figures showed that lending growth was concentrated in the
financial and personal sectors. The big banks' lending to building
societies, insurance companies and 'other' financial companies increased by
an adjusted Pounds 300m, Pounds 252m and Pounds 537m respectively.
Manufacturers increased their borrowing by Pounds 162m whereas lending to
other companies generally fell. The banks' lending to persons in June
increased by Pounds 870m, the largest rise since November.

The Financial Times


London Page 12

940721

