FT942-16128

FT  12 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Small companies


If the minnows of the market had the best of last year's bull run in
equities, they are also showing some useful defensive qualities. Even after
two months in decline, the FT-SE SmallCap index has risen by 4 per cent this
year. If hedge funds and other big international investors were responsible
for the turmoil in the upper echelons of the market, the lower reaches might
have been expected to escape the worst. Still, the recent wave of flotations
and rights issues - more than Pounds 1.5bn was raised by smaller companies
in the first quarter - has been absorbed surprisingly well.
Increased weighting towards small companies by investment institutions, and
a steady flow of funds into small company unit trusts, have helped. But the
best of the institutional re-weighting has probably now been seen. After its
recent outperformance the SmallCap is hardly cheap relative to the rest of
market. A multiple of around 17 times this year's forecast earnings - a 20
per cent premium to the FT-SE 100 index - is not exceptional for this stage
in the economic cycle. Neither does it leave much room for disappointment.
The comfort is that smaller companies' results have been, in aggregate, well
up with expectations. Dividend growth has bounced back after three years of
shrinking payouts. There is also a chance that analysts' forecasts
underestimate the extent of operational gearing likely to be experienced by
industrial companies as the economy improves. With so many manufacturers and
engineering companies clustered at the bottom end of the stock market, the
SmallCap could yet justify investors' faith.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940412

