FT943-13091

FT  21 JUL 94 / HK eyes a second round of welfare legislation


   By SIMON HOLBERTON


   HONG KONG


The Hong Kong government said yesterday it plans next year to introduce
comprehensive legislation to outlaw discrimination against people with
disabilities.
Mrs Elizabeth Wong, the colony's secretary for health and welfare, said that
harassment and vilification of the disabled would also be outlawed. Disabled
people will have recourse to an Equal Opportunities Commission which is to
be established, if they believe they are the target of discriminatory
practices.
The legislation will also cover those who are HIV positive or have Aids  - a
provision which goes further than the UK, where workers sacked for having
the HIV virus have recourse only to the general law on employment
protection.
A week ago the government published a discussion paper that advocated the
introduction of an old-age pension. This drew a hostile reaction from
business, which countered by suggesting expanding existing benefits rather
than creating a new one.
The latest announcement is bound to raise concerns among the more
conservative elements in Hong Kong who think the government is going too far
in its welfare policy.
Mrs Wong said the legislation would enshrine in law 'the standards to which
we believe Hong Kong, as a civilised community, should adhere'. She said
'disability' was any physical or mental impairment that limited a person's
life activities.
The proposed legislation will contain provisions to cover discrimination at
work, in recreation and education, as well as in housing, and access to and
use of buildings.
The law will not impose general requirements on employers to provide more
jobs or better facilities to persons with disabilities.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

940721

