FT942-16349

FT  11 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Lloyd's


The prospect of another thumping loss makes it vital that Lloyd's of London
continues to reform its capital structure. Last year's introduction of
corporate capital helped plug the gap caused by the last round of
underwriting losses. Whether or not the market's solvency is called into
question by the looming tide of red ink, more imaginative measures would
help maintain confidence in its ability to thrive. In particular, a
secondary market in syndicate participations would enable Names to raise
cash by selling their rights to future profits.
The introduction of pre-emption rights promised for next year would be a
step in this direction. Without such protection the value of a syndicate
participation could be eroded over time. But the creation of a fully-fledged
trading system looks some way off, not least because the market value of
participations would be extremely volatile. Regulating such a market and
keeping the lid on insider dealing is also a headache Lloyd's could do
without.
These problems may eventually be overcome. In the meantime lifting
restrictions on corporate capital could achieve much the same effect.
Allowing companies to provide all the capital of a syndicate - from 50 per
cent at present - would open the way for corporate vehicles which looked
more like insurance companies than the investment trusts launched last year.
If syndicate participations were swapped for shares, and the Stock Exchange
could overcome its reluctance to list such new companies, Names would have a
welcome chance to realise value.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940411

