FT941-16858

FT  07 JAN 94 / The Lex Column: Dixons' game theory


Perhaps Dixons is unlucky: accident prone might be a more accurate
description. No sooner has the group staunched its deep and self-inflicted
wound in the US than it falls down a manhole of margin pressure in the UK.
The savage price cutting of games over Christmas underlines the tough
conditions in electronics retailing. Margins are being squeezed by
competition in cheap own-label products and the proliferation of
interest-free offers.
That leaves retailers looking for sales growth, but there is little sign of
a new electronic fad to catch the popular imagination. A robust revival of
the replacement audio, television and white goods markets will require a
stronger upturn in the economy. Meanwhile, the opening of Costco warehouse
clubs and the move to larger out-of-town stores points towards further
competitive pressure.
To be fair, not all the problems are Dixons' fault. It is hard to blame the
company for failing to sell teenagers a second video game console in 1993 to
go with the one they got for Christmas the previous year. More reasonably,
the 1992 result can be viewed as a windfall gain. Next year, when the
effects of the Silo disaster drop out of the figures, Dixons will be left on
little more than a market rating. The tight-knit band of shareholders who
have hung on doggedly through thick and thin are presumably hardened to the
blows of fate which rain on the company, but since Dixons comprises such a
small proportion of the UK stores sector, others may wonder why they should
bother with the risks.

The Financial Times


London Page 14

940107

