FT943-13208

FT  21 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: Growth without pain


There is a well-earned hint of self-congratulation in the minutes of the UK
chancellor's June meeting with the governor of the Bank of England. Both
said that the economic situation was 'favourable' with steady growth and low
inflation. That is doubtless a fair assessment of the present but it says
little about the future. The task now is to maintain this benign
environment: the risk, underlined by yesterday's crop of economic
indicators, is that the economy may be set to grow too quickly.
Retail sales grew 1 per cent by volume in the last quarter despite April's
tax increases. Building society lending is picking up, which must offset
some recent worry about the housing market. In the background is the nascent
economic recovery in Europe which should boost exports, especially at
sterling's current low exchange rate. The economy's ability to withstand tax
increases may also encourage hitherto reluctant companies to invest. So the
governor's threat to raise interest rates if the pace of activity picks up
could well be put to the test.
The question for the markets will be whether this can occur without the
turmoil that followed the Federal Reserve's tightening in February. At least
both gilts and equities have fallen back since then. Equities would have the
consolation that the economic strength which prompted monetary tightening
should also do wonders for corporate earnings. Gilts might prefer the first,
pre-emptive tightening to be larger than the quarter point measured out by
the Fed. The trouble is that the glare of publicity which now surrounds
monetary policy is more conducive to compromise than bold gestures.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940721

