FT942-15615

FT  14 APR 94 / The Lex Column: British Coal


Yesterday's glossy brochure does not make British Coal any easier to value.
The carve-up into five regional companies will go ahead as expected. The two
regions which contain most deep-shaft pits have been allocated the lion's
share of contracts with power generators. Three years of guaranteed cash
flow under these contracts should make up for higher operating costs
relative to the predominantly open-cast regions. The apportionment of
environmental and other liabilities between public and private sectors has
also been clarified. It is a relief that the regional companies will be
ring-fenced from subsidence claims caused by mining which took place before
privatisation.
Until the scale of potential liabilities is clear, though, even rough
valuations are difficult. This information will be available only once
potential bidders have convinced the government of their credentials and
paid the requisite fee. Environmental risks, such as water pollution by
deep-mined pits, are a particular worry. British Coal has always shouldered
such risks itself. Whether insurance companies will be prepared to extend
sufficient cover, and at what price, remains an open question.
Either way, the ability of private sector companies to manage such
liabilities will be almost as important as their skill in getting coal out
of the ground. In the autumn, the government must decide whether any high
bids reflect the bidders' willingness to accept an unusually low rate of
return or an overly-optimistic assessment of the risks.

The Financial Times


London Page 24

940414

