FT944-6076

FT  30 NOV 94 / International Company News: Texaco sells interest in smaller
US operations


   By RICHARD WATERS


   NEW YORK


Texaco, the US oil group, reached an agreement to sell its interest in a
group of small oil and gas fields in the US for Dollars 600m, signalling its
intention to concentrate on bigger, more profitable exploration and
production projects.
The properties are being sold to Apache, an independent energy company based
in Houston, Texas. With net proven reserves of 81m barrels of oil and 220bn
cubic feet of gas, the fields are roughly half as big as Apache's total
reserves at the end of last year. The sale should be completed in the first
quarter of next year, the two companies said.
Texaco said the sale price amounted to Dollars 5.08 per barrel of oil
equivalent.
Texaco's move echoes steps taken by big US oil groups in recent years. Most
have moved to shed smaller US fields, which they are often not able to
develop and run as profitably as can smaller independent companies with
lower overheads.
Texaco said in July that it intended to dispose of a collection of smaller
US fields which contributed 'zero to earnings and less than 10 per cent' of
the company's cashflow from exploration and production activities in the US.
The 300 properties being sold to Apache are spread throughout Texas, as well
as Louisiana, the Gulf of Mexico, the Rocky mountains and 'the
mid-continent' area of the US. Still for sale are properties in California
and the Williston Basin in North Dakota.

The Financial Times


London Page 55

941130

