FT942-16351

FT  11 APR 94 / The Lex Column: UK property


Fund managers have already squeezed the value out of property shares. They
are in danger of spoiling the fun in the investment market, too, after
chasing yields on prime properties down to 6.5 per cent. But about Pounds
11bn of institutional money is still looking for a home in property,
according to Healey & Baker. It is little surprise that some fund managers
are being enticed by the prospects of building their own assets. That such
investments would have been unthinkable just a year ago emphasises the
astonishing speed of the turnaround in market sentiment.
There are undoubtedly good development opportunities in selective sectors.
Many tenants still complain about the dearth of good modern space.
Construction and finance costs are low. The more adventurous property
companies, such as Helical Bar, have already taken the plunge. Big
institutional investors, such as The Prudential and Scottish Amicable, are
following close behind.
The worry will be what happens to the rest of the property market if
development activity takes off on any scale. Prime properties, which offer
secure rental growth, may be little affected but widespread development
could dull the edge of recovery elsewhere, damping rental and capital
growth. That is especially bad news for most secondary and tertiary
properties, where yields are already beginning to climb again as long term
rates rise. Substantial development activity would hasten the creation of a
two-tier property market. Perhaps it is a good job bankers are so reluctant
to lend.

The Financial Times


London Page 16

940411

