FT942-14307

FT  21 APR 94 / Peres and Arafat to meet as negotiations progress: Last
obstacles to be discussed in Bucharest


   By JULIAN OZANNE


   JERUSALEM


Mr Shimon Peres, Israeli foreign minister, and Mr Yassir Arafat, chairman of
the Palestine Liberation Organisation, were due to meet in Bucharest last
night to resolve the last few remaining obstacles to an agreement on
Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho.
Shortly before the scheduled meeting PLO and Israeli peace negotiators in
Cairo said they had completed agreements on all issues of the transfer of
civilian authority from Israeli to Palestinian hands, including the
sensitive matter of control over water.
Mr Nabil Shaath, chief PLO negotiator, also said last night a breakthrough
was imminent on one other outstanding issue - the jurisdiction of
Palestinian laws and courts over Israelis and foreigners in Gaza-Jericho.
If reports of progress prove to be solid this would leave only one main
security issue to be resolved - zoning arrangements for the Gaza Strip.
Israel and the PLO must also conclude an agreement on economic relations
between Israel and the future Palestinian economy which appeared deadlocked
in Paris last night on imports and customs duties.
Before seeing Mr Arafat, Mr Peres dampened expectations of the agreement
being signed next week in Cairo when Mr Warren Christopher, US secretary of
state, will be visiting the Middle East. 'We are getting close to the end,'
he said. But he added: 'I don't think we'll finish by next week.'

The Financial Times


London Page 4

940421

