FT943-13207

FT  21 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: British Airways


BA's passenger figures have recently shown some encouraging gains but two
dark clouds are drifting across its flightpath. USAir's second-quarter
profits increase disguises its dreadful plight. The fall in fuel costs which
flattered its latest figures will be rapidly reversed this quarter while
staff costs are still rising at an alarming rate. USAir accepts it needs a
'permanent and substantial' reduction in operating costs. The strength of
union representation will make conventional cost-cutting hard to achieve.
United Airlines' blueprint for swapping labour concessions for employee
ownership may therefore appeal. But such a scheme would cause big problems
for BA. Either BA's 24.6 per cent shareholding would be heavily diluted or
it would need to inject substantial funds to retain it at that level. BA may
also worry that a rise in employee representation would lessen its own
influence over the future of USAir.
BA's other bugbear of the moment is that the European Commission seems set
to wave through the state bale-out of Air France with minimal conditions.
That would be little short of scandalous given the EC's supposed commitment
to free markets. Air France would receive FFr20bn of financial aid, which is
equivalent to about 60 per cent of BA's market value. State subsidies on
that scale promise to do for the European aviation industry what Chapter 11
achieved in the US. Too much capacity will be kept in the air, distorting
competition and destroying profitability.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940721

