FT942-12701

FT  28 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Germany


The Bundesbank has been miserly with interest rates for so long that
yesterday's generous cut in the repurchase rate comes as something of a
shock. The quarter-point reduction in the discount rate a fortnight ago has
already been reflected in money market rates. This is especially surprising
given the improving economic outlook. There are still risks, but German
government forecasts of 1.5 per cent growth this year no longer look
over-optimistic.
Still, the Bundesbank has a record of cutting interest rates after the
economy has turned, as it did in 1982-83. Inflation is widely expected to
fall this year, so real rates would rise without further action. Most
independent growth forecasts have been nudged higher in anticipation of a
strong export performance, which should not rekindle inflation while output
remains well below trend. With M3 growth running at 15 per cent in March,
money supply poses the only credible inflationary threat. This gives the
Bundesbank a strong argument for caution on the pace of interest rate
reductions.
The explanation for its recent spurt may lie with the foreign exchange
markets. The weakness of the dollar this year has meant an effective
tightening for Germany, especially if exporters are expected to drive
recovery. The Bundesbank may also be trying to relieve pressure on the
French franc. Even allowing for its delight in wrong-footing financial
markets, though, an official rate cut following today's council meeting
looks unlikely.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940428

