FT941-17027

FT  06 JAN 94 / International Company News: Mobil hit by one-off Dollars
250m charge


   By RICHARD WATERS and RICHARD TOMKINS


   NEW YORK


The slump in world oil prices has forced Mobil, the US energy group, to
announce a Dollars 250m charge to cover a write-down in the value of its
inventory.
However, the one-off hit is unlikely to be matched by write-downs at other
big oil groups when the industry reports its full-year results shortly.
Mobil's charge, a non-cash item which will be recorded in its results for
the fourth quarter of 1993, arises from the timing of the company's move to
last in, first out accounting (lifo) for the oil inventory of its
international operations.
The company made the switch in 1982, after the oil price surge of 1979.
Other big oil groups are all believed to have adopted lifo accounting before
1979.
As a result, the book value of Mobil's inventory is higher per barrel than
its competitors, forcing it to take a charge when oil prices fall sharply.
Trans World Airlines, the US carrier which emerged from Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection in November, said it had parted with its top two
executives: Mr William Howard, chairman and chief executive, and Mr Glenn
Zander, vice-chairman, writes Richard Tomkins.
In a terse statement, TWA said the two had resigned. Mr Zander was said to
have left for personal reasons but there was no explanation for Mr Howard's
departure.
TWA said Mr Howard's place would be taken by Mr Donald Craib, an existing
board member who was formerly chairman and chief executive of Allstate
Insurance Group. Mr Robin Wilson, vice-chairman and chief operations
officer, would retain those positions, the company said.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940106

