FT941-12848

FT  28 JAN 94 / Hitch for Brazil economic plan


   By ANGUS FOSTER


   SAO PAULO


Brazil's economic stabilisation programme, proposed by finance minister
Fernando Henrique Cardoso, last night faced its first serious challenge
after Congress failed to approve a key tax increase due to the lack of a
quorum.
The measure, raising corporate tax from 25 to 26.25 per cent, needs approval
by Monday to take effect this year. But persuading congressmen to stay in
Braslia on a Friday, or return from home states on a Monday, is difficult.
The tax increase is needed to help balance this year's budget. Several tax
measures have already been approved, but observers are cautious as to
whether Mr Cardoso's overall programme will provide a lasting cure for
inflation which runs at about 40 per cent a month.
Congress did succeed in approving measures including a small increase in
existing tax bands for individuals. But Mr Cardoso's plans to raise Dollars
5.6bn by setting aside 15 per cent of the transfers central government makes
to states and municipalities has been criticised by Brazil's state
governors. The set-aside can only be approved via a constitutional amendment
and looks likely to be watered down.
The government is likely next month to start negotiating alternative
measures and may propose a reduction in export incentives and further cuts
in development programmes. The social security contributions estimate may be
increased again, and public servants' tax go to the federal rather than
state governments. All this would let the government claim a balanced
budget, but some observers fear the balance will be cosmetic.

The Financial Times


London Page 8

940128

