FT942-14740

FT  19 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Greenspan's grip


The surprising aspect to yesterday's Federal Reserve tightening was not so
much that rates moved up again. Rather it was the timing. Since the latest
data on capacity use, inflation and employment did not suggest any immediate
urgency, the markets cannot look to economic indicators for any short-run
indication of the Fed's intentions. Instead, the Fed simply appears to be
moving quickly to the neutral stance for which Mr Alan Greenspan originally
said he was aiming.
Further rises in the federal funds rate therefore loom, probably accompanied
next time by a discount rate tightening as well. But the markets cannot
predict when. Nor do they yet know exactly what constitutes a neutral
stance. The best guess is that it means a federal funds rate of over 4 per
cent and probably closer to 5. The uncertainty is a burden for equity and
bond markets alike even though there is no particular reason for the latter
to worry. A long bond yield of nearly 7.5 per cent amply discounts a federal
funds rate of 5 per cent. The equity market must worry that higher interest
rates will both slow down the recovery and cause the flow of mutual fund
money to dry up.
That liquidity concern extends to international markets too. On the basis of
yesterday's performance, European bond markets have signally failed to
decouple from the US trend. They are unlikely to do so as long as exchange
markets expect that rising US interest rates will eventually push the dollar
higher. Ironically, yesterday's Fed action left the dollar virtually
unmoved. Perhaps markets everywhere would calm down sooner if the Fed moved
in bigger stages. This is one occasion where it is better to arrive than to
travel fearfully.

The Financial Times


London Page 18

940419

