FT943-898

FT  27 SEP 94 / The Lex Column: Gold


Judging by gold's unruffled reaction to Mr Kenneth Clarke's IMF sales
proposal, the market does not yet believe it will happen. The chancellor
will clearly have his work cut out persuading Mr Michel Camdessus, the IMF's
managing director, to part with gold holdings in order to assist heavily
indebted poor countries. Even if he succeeds, it will be a year or more
before any sales actually occur. The phased sales programme which might then
be introduced would probably be smaller than the large disposals undertaken
by the IMF in the 1970s. With luck, IMF sales might coincide with an end to
Canada's official sales programme, so the market might scarcely notice the
increased supply.
Even so, the fact that IMF gold sales are on the discussion agenda must damp
enthusiasm. Buoyed by indications of rising inflation in the US, gold had
been pushing towards the Dollars 400 level. Underlying demand in China and
India has recovered after a lull and the incipient economic recovery in
Europe seems likely to push up jewellery fabrication demand in Italy.
Before Mr Clarke's announcement, the danger was that the market might run up
on speculative buying, only to succumb to profit-taking as call options were
cashed in at prices about Dollars 420. If the rise now becomes more gradual,
higher prices will be more sustainable. That would please longer term
holders. It would also help calm bond market concern about the inflationary
implications of a sudden spike in the gold price, and surely please leading
central banks as well.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940927

