FT942-12547

FT  29 APR 94 / Yemen clashes flare as deputy PM is attacked


   By ERIC WATKINS


   SANAA


Prospects of a peaceful solution to Yemen's political crisis appeared to
have diminished sharply yesterday with an assassination attempt on Mr Hassan
Makki, a deputy prime minister, and clashes between northern and southern
military units at Amran, 35 miles north-west of Sanaa, the capital.
Mr Makki, a supporter of northern leader Gen Ali Saleh, was shot while
leaving an emergency meeting of the ruling General People's Congress,
convened to discuss the latest outbreak of fighting between troops of the
former North and South Yemen. Mr Makki suffered two bullet wounds and three
of his aides were killed.
Northern and southern leaders have blamed each other for starting the battle
which broke out on Wednesday, a year after Yemen's multi-party elections,
the first held in the Arabian peninsula. The fighting, which continued
yesterday, is the latest in a series of clashes which have marred the peace
agreement brokered by Jordan's King Hussein and signed in February by Gen
Saleh and Vice-President Ali Salem al-Biedh, leader of former South Yemen.
Gen Saleh and Mr al-Biedh had jointly ruled the country following
unification of North and South Yemen in May 1990. But in August last year Mr
al-Biedh returned to his power base in Aden where he has since remained. In
September 1993 he issued a reform programme and demanded its implementation
as a condition of his rejoining Gen Saleh. Gen Saleh and Mr al-Biedh signed
a modified version of the programme in Jordan, but it has yet to be
implemented.

The Financial Times


London Page 6

940429

