FT941-3392

FT  16 MAR 94 / UK Company News: Wainhomes share issue priced at 170p


   By ANDREW TAYLOR, Construction Correspondent


Wainhomes, the Chester-based housebuilder, yesterday announced details of
its plans to raise Pounds 30.5m from a flotation and offer for sale at 170p
a share.
The total amount to be raised is Pounds 41.9m including the sale of 5.8m
shares by existing institutional shareholders.
The issue will give the company a market value of about Pounds 106m. It
plans to place 16m shares mostly with institutions while offering a further
8.62m shares for sale to the public. After the sale it will have 62.24m
shares in issue.
Wainhomes is forecasting earnings of not less than 9.3p per share for the
year ending March 31, putting the group on a p/e of 18.3 times the issue
price.
It said that if it had been already quoted it would have recommended a total
dividend of 4.2p net, representing a notional gross dividend yield of 3.1
per cent.
The company is the latest in a growing list of UK housebuilders to issue
shares to finance land purchases to take advantage of the housing market
recovery. It is forecasting pre-tax profits of Pounds 6.1m for the year to
the end of March, a 15 per cent gain on the previous year's Pounds 5.3m.
It expects to have sold about 950 homes by the end of March, which should
rise to between 1,200 and 1,500 next year, before increasing to 1,800. The
company will use the proceeds to repay borrowings - currently Pounds 17m -
and to buy land.
COMMENT
On the basis of earnings and yield the offer price of 170p is at a slight
premium to Beazer, a large proven housebuilder, which announced its
flotation terms last week. Wainhomes as a small provincial builder however,
has more to gain from increased volumes - and its margins stand comparison
with the better builders. Given market demand for the sector, both Beazer
and Wainhomes issues should succeed.

The Financial Times


London Page 28

940316

