FT942-15872

FT  13 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Virgin territory


Virgin Atlantic's alliance with Delta Air Lines is a fine example of a
commercial solution to a regulatory problem. Buying a portion of Virgin's
seats on transatlantic routes gives Delta access to Heathrow without having
to wait for landing slots to be made available. In theory, there is nothing
to stop such block purchasing agreements being extended to the point at
which smaller European airlines become, in effect, suppliers of seats to big
US carriers. In practice, though, governments would be reluctant to see a
coach and horses driven through their regulations.
Still, joint ticketing arrangements and limited block purchasing are useful
expedients for both sides. Virgin is guaranteed around Pounds 100m of
additional revenue and can extend its frequent flyer programme, a useful
weapon in the battle for business class customers. Since Virgin and Delta do
not compete directly on any route - unlike Lufthansa and United Airlines,
which signed a similar agreement last year - the two parties look like
comfortable bedfellows. Yet if Delta gets its own Heathrow landing slots,
the conflicts of interest would be great. Without cross shareholdings it
will be easy for either side to walk away. The alliance might, however,
sneak market share away from British Airways, or United and American
Airlines which already fly into Heathrow. But while underlying traffic
growth remains strong that may not cause much turbulence. The 3 per cent
rise in BA's shares yesterday suggests the stock market realises as much.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940413

