FT941-4075

FT  12 MAR 94 / Finance and the Family: Options blow


   By DAVID COHEN


An Inland Revenue statement this week could be bad news for globe-trotting
executives with lucrative share options. Fleeing the country will no longer
guarantee the tax-free status of option profits. But if the right steps are
taken before the option is first granted, the taxman's net can still be
avoided.
The exercise of an option by a director or employee generally will result in
a demand for income tax under section 135 of the 1988 Taxes Act. This is
levied on the amount by which the then value of the shares exceeds their
cost.
The strict legal position is that if an executive is resident in the UK when
he is granted the option, his exercise will be caught by section 135 - even
if he is no longer living there at the time. In practice, the Revenue has
taken a much more lenient view. For many years, its stated policy was: 'If
the director or employee has ceased to be resident in the UK at the time he
exercises the option, the question of a charge will not normally arise.'
Three years ago, the Revenue decided to re-define 'normally' in a way which
pointed the section 135 pistol at the heads of most expatriate
option-holders. This week, the full U-turn was completed as what remained of
the Revenue's concessionary treatment was withdrawn for options exercised on
or after April 6.
Since the letter of the law clearly backs the Revenue, any attempt to resist
a tax demand on option profits will be futile. Remaining abroad with all
your assets might stop the tax being collected - but that is hardly
satisfactory. The only real escape route will be for options to be granted
under an 'approved' share scheme.
The benefit of Revenue approval is that the section 135 tax charge generally
will be avoided. Hence, the executive's only potential liability would be
CGT when, ultimately, he sold the shares - and non-residents are exempt from
CGT.
David Cohen is a partner in the City law firm of Paisner & Co.

The Financial Times


London Page XI

940312

