FT943-12651

FT  23 JUL 94 / The Lex Column: The sunlit uplands


Yesterday's clutch of data had the market purring again about the golden
scenario for the UK economy. Despite the widespread fears in anticipation of
the event, April's tax rises appear to have done little to check the
economy's progress. With year-on-year growth running at 3.3 per cent, total
output is now 1.2 per cent above its peak of four years ago. It still
appears that the output gap is narrowing only gradually. If so, that
suggests the UK is capable of a sustained spell of above-trend growth
without igniting inflation.
Such pleasant thoughts wafted the FT-SE 100 index 1.2 per cent higher this
week. Ever-improving prospects for earnings and dividends on the back of the
rebounding economy are continuing to drive equities. With a running yield of
4.3 per cent remaining less than 1 percentage point below base rates, the
market still appears relatively cheap. But, as ever, it will be gilts that
determine equities' ultimate fate. That is where the doubts arise. The
latest published musings of Eddie George and Kenneth Clarke suggest they are
ready to pre-empt the first whiff of inflation by raising short term rates.
Whether that calms or alarms the long end of the gilts market will be the
critical test of the stock market's nerve.
It would indeed be good news for equities if short term rates were to rise
and long rates subside later this year. A flatter yield curve would squeeze
consumer spending while encouraging investment. But the recent experience of
the US bond market suggests it would be dangerous to anticipate as much.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940723

