FT941-12945

FT  27 JAN 94 / London Stock Exchange: Equity Futures and Options Trading


   By JOEL KIBAZO


A mildly disappointing UK gilts auction and weakness in the bund futures
gave traders a further opportunity for profit-taking in Footsie futures,
writes Joel Kibazo.
Early weakness after the March futures contract on the FT-SE 100 Index
opened at 3,444 gave way to a modest advance as independent traders turned
sporadic buyers.
However, the outcome of the mid-morning UK bond auction covered just 1.21
times proved disappointing and sellers of March emerged, driving the
contract lower. The consequent weakness in UK gilts and in the German bunds
proved further reasons for selling and the contract fell to a 7-point
discount to cash early in the afternoon.
The day's low was 3,430, but bargain hunting as Wall Street improved in
early trading helped March recover some of the earlier loss. It finished at
3,439, down 9 from its previous close and at a 4-point discount to its fair
value premium to cash of about 7 points. Volume improved to 13,836 lots.
The expiry of the January stock options brought strong activity to the
traded options sector. Turnover rose to 50,704 contracts, though trading in
the FT-SE 100 option was little changed and volume closed at 13,682 lots.
Some 3,153 contracts were dealt in the Euro FT-SE 100 option.
British Steel, the subject of January expiry, was the most actively traded
stock option with a day's total of 6,768 lots. It was followed by British
Gas at 2,624 and Abbey National, in which Kleinwort Benson was said to have
carried out a big trade in the June calls.

The Financial Times


London Page 46

940127

