FT942-14797

FT  19 APR 94 / Output prices inch upwards


   By GRAHAM BOWLEY


Official figures released yesterday show that inflationary pressures remain
subdued.
The Central Statistical Office reported a monthly increase of just 0.1 per
cent in producer output prices - the price of goods leaving factory gates -
in March. In the year to the end of the month output prices increased by 2.7
per cent, which compares with a an annual rise of 3.4 per cent in February.
The annual rate was last as low as this in September 1992, when the UK left
the European exchange rate mechanism, and has not been lower since February
1987.
The underlying measure of output price inflation, which excludes food,
beverages, tobacco and petroleum, increased by 2.5 per cent in the 12 months
to March, unchanged from the annual rate of growth in February and in line
with expectations. In the three months to March, underlying output prices
grew at an annualised rate of just 0.8 per cent.
The CSO said an important reason for the slowing in the annual rate of
output prices is that there was no spring Budget this year and therefore no
new excise duty rises feeding into the figures.
Producer input prices - the cost of materials and fuels purchased by
manufacturers - increased by 0.3 per cent in March compared with February,
but fell 2.6 per cent in the year to March. It was the fifth consecutive
month in which the annual rate was negative, but the rate of decline was
slower than February's 2.9 per cent. Analysts were expecting on average a
3.7 per cent fall.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

940419

