FT941-5559

FT  05 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Sound and fury


For all the hoo-ha in the markets this week, the FT-SE 100 index finished a
mere 3.2 points down. Even long gilts, the proximate villain of the piece,
only fell by around three-quarters of a point. This is hardly the stuff of
savage bear markets, but the volatility in bonds and equities is enough to
make many investors nervous. From a chartist perspective, the last week's
price movements could mark the kind of churning which occurs around a market
peak. There has been international selling, and it is a brave fund manager
who steps in and buys now.
Yet while the low point of UK and US bond yields has almost certainly
passed, inflation is unlikely to force bond yields up substantially. As the
UK recovery is ticking along and there is plenty of slack still in the
system, growth should feed through to strong earnings increases without much
extra price pressure. The corporate reporting season now well under way
shows earnings rising in line with expectations and dividends, if anything,
rising faster. There are thus strong counter-weights which may support
equity valuations.
Still, given the uncertainty, there is likely to be something of a hiatus in
the market. Stock selection will also be important. Interest-rate sensitive
yield stocks, such as utilities and even food retailers, have lagged behind
since the bond market turned. Early-cycle growth stocks like media, which
should see the best of the near-term earnings rises, may continue to attract
attention. Investors will, however, have to overcome an aversion to what
already look like sky-high ratings.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940305

