FT941-17000

FT  06 JAN 94 / London Stock Exchange: Sellers hit drugs sector


   By CHRISTOPHER PRICE and JOEL KIBAZO


Selected pharmaceutical stocks were driven lower as worries grew over the
impact of new regulations in the Italian prescription drugs market.
SmithKline Beecham was the worst hit, the shares retreating 15 to 391p.
Analysts said the group's Pounds 250m a year sales in Italy could be reduced
by as much as 30 per cent under the new rules. Three SmithKline drugs -
Argmentin, Refen and Seroxat - could be reclassified under the regulations
omitting them from receiving state reimbursements for customer
prescriptions. However, the drugs companies plan to appeal against the new
regulations.
Glaxo, which tumbled 23 to 693p, was further undermined by a negative note
from Goldman Sachs, which reaffirmed its view that over the long term the
stock will underperform. The broker is concerned that the ending of patent
rights for Tagamet - owned by SmithKline Beecham - in 1994 may bring lower
usage of Zantac, the Glaxo-owned rival in the ulcer market, as cheaper
alternatives to Tagamet become available.
A significant proportion of US health care managers responding to a Goldman
Sach's survey indicated that they were likely to use less Zantac when
generic Tagamet becomes available. However, a more positive Mr Nigel Barnes
at Hoare Govett said: 'The impact of generic Tagamet has been exaggerated
and the therapeutic differences between Zantac and Tagamet underestimated.
The choice of product is more than just price alone.'
Elsewhere, Wellcome staged a recovery, the shares gaining 5 at 665p, with
Salomon Brothers issuing a buy note. The broker argued that the shares had
been oversold and said that even on the most pessimistic assumptions
compound annual earnings per share growth of 12 per cent can be expected
over the next four years.

The Financial Times


London Page 32

940106

