FT943-900

FT  27 SEP 94 / The Lex Column: Bass


No one expected Bass to report much of an increase in its beer margins in
yesterday's trading statement. But the 3 per cent fall in its shares, even
in a weak market, suggests limited faith in the strategy now emerging to
secure future earnings growth. Having effectively abandoned its dash for
volume growth in beer, Bass is turning to brand management and product mix
as a way of increasing its revenues. In beer this involved driving specific
brands such as Carlsberg and Grolsch, but the pub estate is also being
expanded and upgraded with more emphasis on food. The rebranding of Holiday
Inns will put pressure on franchisees to invest in moving at least some way
upmarket.
It is hard to quibble with this approach given the market conditions Bass
faces, but Bass is coming late into food retailing in so-called
'destination' pubs where Whitbread already has an edge. Its strategy has
been less consistent than that of Scottish & Newcastle, which has secured
growth first through its Center Parcs and then its purchase of Chef &
Brewer.
Nor is the external environment that favourable, even though price pressures
have abated. Courage has yet to reveal its strategy for coping with the
looming end of its Inntrepreneur supply contracts, while the
Carlsberg-Tetley joint venture must still aim to recoup its weak start last
year. One must hope that Mr Ian Prosser's new approach is robust enough to
withstand external pressures. Otherwise shareholders could come to regret
their willingness to tolerate his combination of the roles of chairman and
chief executive.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940927

