FT942-12702

FT  28 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Unenterprising approach


Enterprise Oil has lost the first round in the battle for Lasmo. Its opening
shot, a statement extracted from it by the Takeover Panel against its will,
failed to make clear whether it was going to bid or not. Reading between the
lines, there is little doubt that chairman Mr Graham Hearne's ambition is to
acquire Lasmo. But yesterday's indecisive statement will have done nothing
to deter rival bidders, whether British Gas or some international group,
from entering the fray. It also failed to provide any rationale for putting
the groups together.
The industrial logic of merging the two companies looks pretty thin. There
may be cost savings from cutting overheads in a larger group. But a bigger
organisation could also lack the dynamism needed to discover new oil and gas
reserves - a task at which neither company has excelled recently. Nor is it
as though Mr Hearne can plausibly sell himself as the man to put Lasmo's
house in order following the Ultramar fiasco. Under chief executive Mr Joe
Darby, Lasmo has already done much of the stable cleaning for itself.
The financial logic also seems lacking. Given that Lasmo's Pounds 219m
rights issue is now irreversible, Enterprise can no longer argue that its
smaller rival is desperate for cash to shore up its balance sheet. Moreover,
at current oil prices, a merger would dilute Enterprise's earnings per
share. The suspicion is that Mr Hearne simply enjoys the idea of running an
even larger empire. Enterprise will presumably think up some clever
arguments for combining the groups if and when it bids. But it is now
starting from behind.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940428

