FT942-16127

FT  12 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Construction


The latest forecast from UK building material producers is notably more
upbeat than previously. But given the rise in building material and
construction shares over the past year, it would have been alarming to
contemplate anything else. Housebuilding appears to be ticking over nicely
while there is a lot more optimism about industrial and commercial
construction spending. The repair and maintenance numbers look weak but the
suspicion must be that official numbers are distorted by the blossoming
black economy. Companies exposed to that sector, such as plasterboard
manufacturers, are certainly reporting good volume and price gains.
Despite the benign outlook, contractors remain a grumpy bunch. Industry
leaders are advancing the novel proposition that the generosity of bankers
is to blame for keeping weak competitors afloat. Aggressive tendering is
therefore still whittling away margins while some big projects fade away.
The Channel tunnel is almost complete, the grocery chains are scaling back
their ambitions to carpet the country with concrete, and the cut in the road
building programme will begin to hurt next year.
The logical answer would be for the construction sector to rationalise
capacity through mergers. There remains a place for both specialist or
regional contractors and diversified international groups. But medium-sized
contractors may find it increasingly hard to justify an independent
existence.

The Financial Times


London Page 20

940412

