FT941-17165

FT  06 JAN 94 / Cambodian army flexes muscles


   By IAIN SIMPSON


   PHNOM PENH


Senior Cambodian generals are preparing for an offensive against the Khmer
Rouge but concede their intention is a propaganda victory rather than a
military one.
At least 20 soldiers have been killed and 60 injured in sporadic clashes
between government and Khmer Rouge forces in western Cambodia since New
Year's Day, but it is not clear what strategic gains have been made by
either side.
Diplomats in Phnom Penh believe the government is eager to hold peace talks
with the Khmer Rouge but say the national army wants to show it is ready to
fight if necessary.
Progress towards talks between the two sides has been slow, held up at every
step by haggling over conditions. The Khmer Rouge has said it will only hold
talks with no pre-conditions. This has in turn become a serious stumbling
block because the government wants a clear commitment to a ceasefire before
it is willing to negotiate.
Informal contacts have taken place, notably on December 17 when the senior
prime minister, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, met the nominal leader of the
Khmer Rouge, Khieu Samphan. However, Prince Ranariddh and his officials have
since been eager to point out that these were 'just talks, not
negotiations'.
As if to prove the point, a week after the meeting, government forces
launched what senior generals have been calling a 'Christmas offensive'. So
far there has been no sign of large-scale fighting, only skirmishes.
This is the time of year when fighting has traditionally started in
Cambodia's long civil war with the beginning of the dry season.

The Financial Times


London Page 4

940106

