FT941-4103

FT  12 MAR 94 / The Lex Column: Eurotunnel


The market is growing jittery about Eurotunnel. The units fell 5 per cent
yesterday on a French media report suggesting the Channel tunnel would not
be open for the critical summer season. Eurotunnel was unable to issue a
convincing denial. That is probably because it has no firm idea when it will
open. Delays in delivering rolling stock and commissioning operating systems
are proving troublesome.
Eurotunnel is surely right to postpone the phased openings until its train
sets are working smoothly. It would do immense damage to its reputation to
open prematurely and offer a poor service. That, though, will only intensify
the headaches in its finance department. Eurotunnel has said it will run out
of cash in May which is why it needs to raise Pounds 1bn in fresh debt and
equity. But no merchant banker will sign off a rights issue prospectus
before the opening dates are fixed and revenue projections can be made with
the minimum uncertainty.
Eurotunnel says the prospectus will be published before June but not
necessarily before the official state opening on May 6. That raises the
possibility of a further slippage in the fund raising's timing. Eurotunnel
should have little difficulty arranging stand-by facilities with its bankers
should the cash run out in the meantime. There is little alternative use for
such a big hole in the ground. But the delay can only worsen the terms under
which the rights issue is staged.

The Financial Times


London Page 22

940312

