FT941-5577

FT  05 MAR 94 / International Company News: Lufthansa sell-off may get under
way this year


   By DAVID WALLER


   FRANKFURT


The German government yesterday reaffirmed its commitment to privatising
Lufthansa, and indicated that the process could get under way this year.
An official from the finance ministry told the Reuters news agency that the
government intended to give up its majority holding in the airline in 1994,
although details of how it will take its stake below 51 per cent have yet to
be worked out.
The comments from Mr Eckart John von Freyend, director of government
holdings at the finance ministry, follow recent indications from Mr Theo
Waigel, finance minister, and Mr Matthias Wissmann, transport minister, that
the privatisation process will begin this year.
Although Lufthansa is keen to be privatised, the move away from state
ownership is currently blocked as a result of a dispute over the financing
of pensions for Lufthansa employees. Lufthansa is likely to have to make a
substantial contribution to VBL, the government employee pension fund, in
order to help finance the pensions when the group leaves the public sector.
Privatisation is unlikely to be effected via a direct sale of government
shares in the airline: it is more probable that Lufthansa will hold a large
rights issue in which the government will not participate, thereby diluting
its stake.
Lufthansa is to seek shareholder approval to raise capital at its annual
meeting on July 6; a one-for-three rights issue at current share prices
would raise DM1.7bn (Dollars 960m) and lower the government stake to about
40 per cent.

The Financial Times


London Page 13

940305

