FT942-12700

FT  28 APR 94 / The Lex Column: Williams Holdings


The rights issue from Williams Holdings is an admission that the company
does not expect to generate sufficient cash internally to fund its bolt-on
acquisition programme. But then the recent pace of spending has been such
that it would have been hard to imagine anything else. At least the issue
secures the funds to carry on for a couple of years without constant
pressure on gearing. And the purchase of Solvay's woodcare and tile adhesive
businesses looks sensible. The products have a strong market presence, there
is room for margin improvement and the acquisition should help European
distribution of Cuprinol.
That said, Williams must actually come up reasonably soon with yet more
acquisitions at prices which will enhance its earnings. Otherwise it would
not only stand accused of simply raising capital for purchases already made.
Lack of gearing would also dilute earnings at a time when tight cover is
likely to hold back dividend growth compared with other manufacturing
companies.
Williams obviously believes it can clinch the necessary deals. Yesterday's
share price fall just below the ex-rights price suggests the market errs
marginally on the side of scepticism. A policy of focused acquisitions looks
a sensible strategy for the sober 1990s. It would be comforting to think
that, when the rights money is spent, the pace will have slowed to one that
could be reasonably financed by internally-generated funds - and that the
cash will be flowing to support it.

The Financial Times


London Page 26

940428

