FT944-14511

FT  22 OCT 94 / UK Company News: BCE moves into electronic games with Pounds
14m purchase


   By DAVID BLACKWELL


Shares in BCE Holdings were suspended yesterday at 9 1/2 p, after the
announcement of a deal that will take the snooker and pool products
distributor into the electronic games industry and more than treble its
size.
The USM-traded group, which has a market capitalisation of just under Pounds
6m, has agreed in principle to acquire for Pounds 14m Rage Software and
another similar company involved in the development of video and computer
games.
Mr Robin Jones, managing director, said that the two companies, which
together employ about 100 people, had developed games that had sold hundreds
of thousands of copies. One of Rage's most successful products was Striker,
a football game.
Mr Jones and a partner bought into BCE from former chairman Mr David Fisher
in October last year. Since then, said Mr Jones, the new management has
transformed the group, which includes a chain of 10 games arcades in London.
He expects the circular proposing the latest deal to be sent to shareholders
in three to four weeks, with an extraordinary meeting soon after. The money
is likely to be raised in a placing and open offer.
After the purchase the group's market capitalisation is expected to be at
least Pounds 25m. The vendors of the games businesses will be keeping a
substantial amount of the equity.
Last August, BCE reported a deficit of Pounds 796,000 before and after tax
for the year to March 31. The outcome, on turnover of Pounds 3.73m, took in
exceptional charges totalling Pounds 203,000.

The Financial Times


London Page 10

941022

